This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

KF50 .U5x

1817

ARTES

SCIENTI

VERITAS

LIBRARY O SITY MICFHTIHGAEN F

UNIVER

O

TUEBOR
SI-QUARISPENINSULA AM M ENAM CIRCUMSPICE
 SCHOOL

Fed Coll Stat

KF50 .U5x

1817

ARTES

SCIENTIA

VERITAS LIBRARY

OCFHTIHGEAN

UNIVERSITY MI OF

TUEBOR
SI-QUERISPENINSULAM ANGNAM CIRCUMSPICE
LAW SCHOOL

Fed Coll Stat

U.S. [Laws ..] .
THE
STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, FROM
·MARCH, 1909 , TO MARCH, 1911 ,
CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF THE TWO HOUSES OF CONGRESS, AND
RECENT TREATIES, CONVENTIONS, AND EXECUTIVE PROCLAMATIONS.
EDITED, PRINTED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
VOL. XXXVI . IN TWO PARTS.
PART 1-Public Acts and Resolutions. PART 2--Private Acts and Resolutions, Concurrent Resolutions,
Treaties, and Proclamations. BOOK TWO
PAGES 871-1,460 ( INDEX) WASHINGTON :
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1911.

8

This volume is printed on acid free paper by WILLIAM S. HEIN & CO., INC.

RESOLUTIONS.

[No. 1. ] Joint Resolution To pay the officers and employees of the Senate and December 20, 1909. House ofRepresentatives their respective salaries for the month of December, nine- [H.J. Res. 81.]

teen hundred and nine, on the twentieth day of said month.

[Pub. Res., No. 7.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Congressional offi-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the cers, etc., to be paid Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives be, and they are Dceemcbeemrbe20r,s1a9l0a9r.ies Dehereby, authorized and instructed to pay the officers and employees of
the Senate and House of Representatives, including the Capitol Police,
their respective salaries for the month of December, nineteen hundred
and nine, on the twentieth day of said month.
Approved, December 20, 1909.

. [No. 2. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing a portion of the appropriation made for

January 7, 1910..

the improvement of Tennessee River to be applied to work atthe Colbert and Bee [H.J.Res. 83.]

Tree Shoals Canal.

[Pub. Res., No.8.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of fifteen

Tennessee River. Use of balance for

thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, of the Colbert and Bee Tree unexpended balance of appropriations heretofore made for the ShVoaolls.3C4a,npa.l1.093.

improvement of Tennessee River between Chattanooga, Tennessee, and

Riverton, Alabama, may, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, be

applied to work at the Colbert and Bee Tree Shoals Canal for the pur-

pose of opening said canal to navigation.

Approved, January 7, 1910.

[No. 3.] Joint Resolution Authorizing an investigation of the Department of the January 19, 1910. Interiorand itsseveral bureaus, officers, and employees, and of the Bureau ofForestry, [H.J.Res. 103.]

in the Department of Agriculture, and its officers and employees.

[Pub. Res., No. 9.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That a joint committee of meInnttearnidor FDoerpaerstt-

both Houses of Congress is hereby created, to be composed of six service.

Members

of the

Senate,

to

be

appointed

by the

President

thereof,

and

Joint Congressional committee created to

six Members of the House of Representatives, to be elected by that ipnuvbelsitcilgaantdesd,isetpco.sal of body. Any vacancy occurring on the committee shall be filled in the

same manner as the original appointment. The said committee is

hereby empowered and directed to make a thorough and complete investigation of the administration, action, and conduct of the Department of the Interior and its several bureaus, officers, and employees, and of the Bureau of Forestry, in the Department of Agriculture, and

its officers and employees, touching, relating to, or bearing upon the reclamation, conservation, management, and disposal of the lands of

the United States, or any lands held in trust by the United States

for any purpose, including all the resources and appurtenances of such lands, and said committee is authorized and empowered to make any further investigation touching said Interior Department,

871

872

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 3. 1910.

Powers.

its bureaus, officers, and employees, and of said Bureau of Forestry, its officers, and employees as it may deem desirable. Said committee

or any subcommittee thereof is hereby empowered to sit and act during

the session or recess of Congress, or of either House thereof; to require

by subpoena, or otherwise, the attendance of witnesses and the pro-

duction of books , documents, and papers; to take the testimony of

witnesses under oath; to obtain documents, papers, and other infor-

mation from the several departments of the Government, or any bureau

thereof; to employ stenographers to take and make a record of all

evidence taken and received by the committee, and to keep a record of

its proceedings; to havesuch evidence, record, and other matter required

Oaths.

by the committee printed and suitably bound ; and to employ such assistance as may be deemed necessary. The chairman of the com-

mittee, or any member thereof, may administer oaths to witnesses.

neAststees.ndance of wit- Subpoenas for witnesses shall be issued under the signature of the chairman of the committee or the chairman of any subcommittee

thereof. And in case of disobedience to a subpoena this committee

may invoke the aid of any court of the United States or of any of the Territories thereof or of the District of Columbia or the

district of Alaska, within the jurisdiction of which any inquiry may be carried on by said committee in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and documents under the provisions of this resolution. And any such
court within the jurisdiction of which the inquiry under this resolution is being carried on may, in case of contuinacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person under authority of this resolution issue
an order requiring such person to appear before said committee and produce books and papers if so ordered and give evidence touching the matter in question, and any failure to obey such order of the court Criminating testi- may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. The claim that mony. any such testimony or evidence may tend to criminate the person giving such evidence shall not excuse such witness from testifying, but such evidence or testimony shall not be used against such person on
the trial of any criminal proceeding except in prosecution for perjury fuPsuinngisthomteesnttiffyo, ertcr.e- committed in giving such testimony. In addition to being subject to
punishment for contempt, as hereinbefore provided, every person who, having been summoned as a witness by authority of said committee, or any subcommittee thereof, willfully makes default, or who, having appeared, refuses to answer any question pertinent to the investigation herein authorized, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars nor less than one hundred dollars, and imprisonment

Counsel allowed in a common jail for not more than one year not less than one month.

officials.

Any official, or ex-official, of the Department of the Interior, or of

the Bureau of Forestry, in the Department of Agriculture, whose

official conduct is in question, may appear and be heard before the said

Hearings, etc. Post, p. 2136.

joint committee, or any subcommittee thereof, in person or by counsel. All bearings by and before said joint committee or any subcommittee
thereof shall be open to the public. The said joint committee shall

Appropriation.

conclude its investigation and report to this Congress all the evidence taken and received and their findings and conclusions thereon. The

sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be

necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury

not otherwise appropriated, to pay the necessary expenses of said

joint committee, the said sum to be disbursed by the Secretary of

the Senate upon vouchers to be approved by the chairman of the committee.

Approved, January 19, 1910.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 4-6. 1910.

873

[No. 4. ] Joint Resolution To remove ice gorges in the Ohio River.

January 19, 19:0. [H. J. Res. 120.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Pub. Rex , No. 10.1 States of America in Congress assembled, That to enable the Secretary Appropriation for of War to take such steps as he may deem to be necessary in the rine.moving ice gorges removal of ice gorges in the Ohio River, which are threatening the destruction of life and property, there is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of ten thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
Approved, January 19, 1910.

January 20, 1910.

[No. 5.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to pay to the [S. J. Res. 68.]

Winnebago tribe of Indians interest accrued since June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and nine.

[Pub. Res., No. 11.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United WinnebagoIndians. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Nebr. and Wis. Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to advance from any acAcprpureodpirnitaetrieostntofeonr moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated a sufficient sum rolled members. to pay to the members of the Winnebago tribe of Indians in Nebraska and Wisconsin, as hereinafter provided, their shares of the interest which has accrued since June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nine,
and which will accrue up to and including June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, on the capitalized fund of eight hundred and eightythree thousand two hundred and forty-nine dollars and fifty- three cents placed to the credit of the tribe by a provision in the Indian appropriation Act approved March third, nineteen hundred and nine
(Thirty-fifth Statutes at Large, page seven hundred and eighty-one), and the Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed to pay immedi ately said shares of interest to the members of the tribe whose names
appear on the latest annuity pay rolls in the Office of Indian Affairs, with such changes as may have been caused by subsequent births and deaths.
That after June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, any interest beNbeaswiseonfrfoultlumreenptayt-o payments that may be made on the capitalized fund of the Winnebago ments. tribe shall be made on the basis of the new enrollment provided for Post, p.877. in the said Act of March third, nineteen hundred and nine.
Approved, January 20, 1910.

[No. 6. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the President of the United Statesto invite January 24, 1910.

the States to participate in the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and [S. J. Res. 56.]

Demography.

(Pub. Res., No. 12.]

Resolved by the Senate and Ilouse of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the Hygiene and De United States be, and he is hereby, authorized and requested to extend moStratpesh invited to an invitation to the governor of each State to appoint a state committee ntatkieonpaalrCtonignreIsnstoern-. of not more than five members to cooperate with the committee on Ante. p.341. organization in planning and preparing the exhibition of the Fifteenth
International Congress on Hygiene and Demography. Approved, January 24, 1910.

874

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 7-10. 1910.

February 3, 1910. [S. J. Res. 55.]

[No. 7.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the postponement of the Fifteenth Inter-

national Congress on Hygiene and Demography.

(Pub. Res., No. 13.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

moHgyrgaipehnye. and De- States of America in Congress assembled, That the invitation extended Postponement of by the President of the United States to the Fourteenth International.

FnaitfitoneaelnCtonhgrIesnsteonr. Congress on Hygiene and Demography, in accordance with the pro" Vol. 34, p. 1422. visions of a joint resolution entitled a Joint Resolution authorizing
the President to extend an invitation to the Twelfth International

Ante, p. 341.

Congress of Hygiene and Demography to hold its thirteenth congress in the city of Washington," approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and seven, shall be modified and amended so that it shall provide for the holding of the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography at some place in the United States, to be selected by the President, in the year nineteen hundred and eleven or nineteen hundred and twelve.

Approved, February 3, 1910.

February 11, 1910. [No. 8. ] Joint Resolution Providing for the filling of vacancies, which occurred [S. J. Res. 59.] on January twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten, in the Board of Regents of
[Pub. Res., No. 14.] the Smithsonian Institution of the class other than Members of Congress.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

tSiomni.thsonian Institu- States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancies which John B. Henderson occurred on January twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten, in the

hanadm ABellelxraenadpeproiGnrtead- Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the class other

Regents.

than Members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of

John B. Henderson and Alexander Graham Bell, residents of the city

of Washington, whose terms of office expired on that date.

Approved, February 11 , 1910.

February 15, 1910. [No. 9. ] Joint Resolution Amending Section Eighteen, ofthe Act ofJuly second, [S. J. Res. 66.] nineteen hundred and nine, entitled "An Act to provide for the Thirteenth and sub-
(Pub. Res.,No. 15.] sequent decennial censuses.'
Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United STpheicritaelenatghenCtse.nsus. States of America in Congress assembled, That Section Eighteen, of Ante, p.7, amended. the Act of Congress approved July second, nineteen hundred and
nine, providing for the Thirteenth and subsequent decennial censuses (Thirty sixth Statutes at Large, page seven), be amended by adding tiBoans.is of compensa at the end of the section the words: " which may include a minimum and maximum rate of per diem compensation to be fixed by him, the maximum rate in such cases not to exceed an average of six dollars per diem for the period of employment, and actual necessary traveling expenses and an allowance in lieu of subsistence not exceeding three dollars per diem during necessary absence from their usual place of residence.'
Approved, February 15, 1910.

February 19, 1910. [No. 10. ] Joint Resolution Changing the title of the sealer of weights and meas [H. J. Res. 78.] ures of theDistrict of Columbia to superintendent of weights, measures, and markets.
(Pub. Res., No. 16.] Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
biDai.strict of Colum- States of America in Congress assembled, That the sealer of weights Superintendent of and measures of the District of Columbia shall hereafter be known
and marketasure,sand designated as the " superintendent of weights, measures, and New designation. markets."
Approved, February 19, 1910.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS SESS., II. RES. 11-14. 1910.

875

[No. 11.] Joint Resolution To donate a brass cannon´to the State of Georgia.

February 24, 1910. [H. J. Res. 111.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Pub. Res., No. 17.] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War ODbosnoalteetde toorGdenoarngciea. be, and he is hereby, authorized to deliver, without expense to the for cemetery at MariUnited States, to the State of Georgia, at. Atlanta, Georgia, if the etta. same can be done without detriment to the public service, a small brass cannon once belonging to the Georgia Military Institute, to be used on a monument to be erected in the confederate cemetery at Marietta, Georgia.
Approved, February 24, 1910.

[No. 12.] Joint Resolution Authorizing an extension of the tracks of the Atchison, February 24, 1910. Topeka and Santa Fe Railway on the military reservation at Fort Leavenworth, [H.J. Res. 101.] .

Kansas.

(Pub. Res., No. 18.].

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War KaFnosrt Leavenworth,

be, and he is hereby, authorized to permit the Atchison, Topeka and Atchison, Topeka

Santa Fe Railway Company to extend its tracks on the military reser- aCnodmpSaanntya FgerRaainltweady

vation

at

Fort

Leavenworth,

Kansas,

in

such

manner

as

he

may

deem

right of reservation.

way

on

expedient, for the purpose of connecting said tracks with the govern-

ment terminal switch tracks on that reservation: Provided, That such

Proviso. No expense.

extension shall be made without expense to the United States.

Approved, February 24, 1910.

[No. 13.] Joint Resolution To continue in full force and effect an Act entitled
"An Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the soldiers and
sailors of the confederate army and navy who died in northern""prisons and were buried near the prisons where they died, and for other purposes.'

February 25, 1910. [H.J.Res. 187.]
[Pub. Res. , No. 19.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Confederatesoldiers States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Act entitled " An and sailors.

Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the whMoardkiiedngingnroarvetsheorfn. soldiers and sailors of the confederate army and navy who died in prisons.
Vol.34, p.56. northern prisons and were buried near the prisons where they died, Post, p. 1453. and for other purposes," approved March ninth, nineteen hundred
and six, and continued in full force and effect for two years by a

joint resolution approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and eight, be, and the same is hereby, continued in full force and effect for one year from this date: Provided, That said Act shall not be construed to apply to the Confederate Mound in Oakwood Cemetery at Chicago: Provided further, That the Secretary of War

Vol.35, p. 567. Time continued.
Provisos. Exception. Post,P.882. Civilian prisonera.

may cause to be erected at the head of each grave of a citizen or civilian prisoner of war who was buried among the soldiers a headstone of the size and dimensions of those placed at the head of the

soldiers' graves, but containing no inscription except the number of the grave, the name of the occupant, and the word " citizen " or

"civilian" placed thereon, and at an expense for each no greater than

of

that for each soldier: And provided further, That the compensation coCmommipsesnisoanteir.on

of the commissioner shall be fixed by the Secretary of War.

Approved, February 25, 1910.

[No. 14.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the President of the United States to convey thanks to the Government of Italy for certain gifts.
Whereas the Government of Italy, as an expression of its gratitude for the action of Congress and of the American people in behalf of the sufferers from the earthquake of December, nineteen hundred

March 1, 1910. [H.J. Res. 93.1 [Pub. Res., No. 20.]
Preamble.

876

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 14-16. 1910.

and eight, bas presented to the Library of Congress a copy of each

engraving seen in the " Catalogue of the Best Prints and Engrav-

ings in Copper which Exist in the Royal Copperplate Collection:"

Therefore be it

7.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Italy. Thanks of the States of America in Congress assembled, That the President is hereby
gUinfittoefdenSgtartaevsintgos,. for authorized to convey to the Government of Italy the thanks of the Government of the United States for the gift, valuable from the stand-
point of art, and more valuable as an expression of the good will of
the Government and people of Italy.

Approved, March 1 , 1910.

March 5, 1910.

[No. 15. ] Joint Resolution For appointment of members of Board of Managers of

[H.J. Res. 142.] the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers.

[Pub. Res., No. 21.] Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

DiNsaatbiloendal VHoolmunetefeorr States of America in Congress assembled, That James W. Wadsworth,

Soldiers.

of New York; Henry E. Palmer, of Nebraska; John M. Holley, of

MaMneamgbeerrssapopfoBionatreddo.f Wisconsin; Henry H. Markham, of California; and Oscar M. Gott-

schall, of Ohio, be, and the same are hereby appointed as members of

the Board of Managers of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer

Soldiers of the United States; Major James W. Wadsworth to succeed

himself, his present term of service expiring April twenty-first, nine-

teen hundred and ten ; Captain Henry E. Palmer to succeed himself.

his present term of service expiring April twenty-first, nineteen hun-

dred and ten; John M. Holley to succeed himself, bis present term of

service expiring April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and ten; Colonel

Henry H. Markham to succeed himself, his present term of service expiring April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and ten; and Oscar M.

Gottschall to succeed General Charles M. Anderson, whose term of

service would expire April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and twelve,

but who died on December twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and eight.

Approved, March 5, 1910.

March 15, 1910.

[No. 16. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of War to loan certain tents.

[S.J. Res. 63.] for the use of the Confederate Veterans' Reunion, to be held at Mobile, Alabama, in

(Pub. Res., No. 22.1 April, nineteen hundred and ten.

Resolved by the Senate and IIouse of Representatives of the United

anCso'nRfeeudneiroant,eMoVbeitleer, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

Ala. Loan of tents to.

be, and is hereby, authorized to loan, at his discretion, to the execu-

tive committee Confederate Veterans' Reunion, to be held at Mobile,

Provisos. No expense, etc.

Alabama, April twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, and twenty- eighth, nineteen hundred and ten, such tents, with necessary poles, ridges,
and pins, as may be required at said reunion : Provided, That no expense shall be caused the United States Government by the delivery

and return of such property, the same to be delivered to said commit-

Bond required.

tee designated at such time prior to the date of said reunion as may be agreed upon by the Secretary of War and Jacob D. Bloch, general chairman of said executive committee: And provided further. That

the Secretary of War shall, before delivering such property, take

from Jacob D. Bloch a good and sufficient bond for the safe return of said property in good order and condition, and the whole without

expense to the United States.

Approved, March 15, 1910.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 17-20. 1910.

877

[No. 17.] Joint Resolution Enlarging the scope of inquiry of the schedules relat-

March 21, 1910. [H.J.Res. 172. ]

ing.to population for the Thirteenth Decennial Census.

[Pub. Res., No. 23.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Thirteenth Census. States of America in Congress assembled, That the schedules relating Schedules to show
to population for the Thirteenth Decennial Census, in addition to the tnaotnigounealoiftfyoroerimgno-tbhorenr inquiries required by the Act entitled " An Act to amend section persons.
Ante. p. 227, eight of an Act to provide for the Thirteenth and subsequent decen- amended
nial censuses, approved July second, nineteen hundred and nine,"

approved February twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, shall pro-

vide inquiries respecting the nationality or mother tongue of all persons born in foreign countries, and of the nationality or mother

tongue of parents of foreign birth of persons enumerated.

Approved, March 24, 1910.

[No. 18. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the use of a United States Army transport March 30, 1910.

for certain purposes.

[S.J. Res. 83.]

[Pub. Res., No. 24.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War fePraennc-eA.merican Con-

be, and he is hereby, authorized to employ a United States Army deUlesgeatofest,reatncs.p, otrot. for transport to convey from New York to Buenos Aires, Argentine Ante, pp. 203, 775.

Republic, the delegates and their assistants appointed, under the

authority ofthe urgent deficiency Act, approved February twenty-fifth,

nineteen hundred and ten, to represent the United States atthe Fourth
International Conference of Ainerican States which is to convene in Buenos Aires on July ninth, nineteen hundred and ten: Provided, Proxviismo.um expense.

That the total expense thus incurred shall not exceed forty-five thousand dollars, said sum to be paid out of the appropriation made for the commission in the urgent deficiency Act, approved February twentyfifth, nineteen hundred and ten.

Approved, March 30, 1910.

[No. 19.] Joint Resolution Fixing the terms of court in the Philippine Islands.

April 9,1910. [S.J. Res. 38. ]

[Pub. Res., No. 25.]
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Philippine Islands. States of America in Congress assembled, That the supreme court of Terms of supreme

the Philippine Islands is authorized to hold such special term or terms court at Baguio, etc.

in each year at Baguio, in the Province of Benguet, or at any other

suitable place in the Philippine Islands, as may be provided by order

of the court, and to make such orders with reference to the transfer of

records and the issuing of process as shall be necessary to make the

orders, decrees, and judgments entered by the court in such special term or terms effective.

Approved, April 9, 1910.

[No. 20. ] Joint Resolution Amending a "Joint Resolution authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to pay to the Winnebago tribe of Indians interest accrued since June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nine," approved January twentieth, nineteen hundred and ten (Senate Joint Resolution Numbered Fifty-eight) .

April 12, 1910. (5.J. Res. 91.]
[Pub. Res., No. 26.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the "Joint Resolution diWanisn, Nneebrb.ago In-

Numbered

Fifty-eight,

approved January

twentieth,

nineteen

hundred

Payment of Omaha andWinnebago Agen-

and ten, authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to pay to the Win- eyAfntreo,mpi.n8t7e3r,easmteonnd. nebago tribe of Indians interest accrued since June thirtieth, nineteen ed.

hundred and nine," be, and the same is' hereby, amended by adding

after the last word thereof the following: But the Secretary of the

878

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 20, 22, 23. 1910.
Interior is hereby authorized to reserve from the interest of the Winnebagoes in Nebraska a sufficient amount to pay their proportion of the necessary expenses of the Omaha and Winnebago Agency, and to expend the same therefor.
Approved, April 12, 1910.

April 26, 1910. [S.J. Res. 80.]

[No. 22. ] Joint Resolution Providing for a special election in the Territory of Hawaii.

[Pub. Res. , No. 27. ]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Hawaii. Frohibition of in- States of America in Congress assembled, That the governor of the
ttooxeilceacntotrss. submitted Territory of Hawaii be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to call a special election by the legally qualified electors as now registered

in that Territory for the purpose of submitting to the electors the.

question of prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors

in the Territory of Hawaii.

Special election.

Said special election shall be held on Tuesday, the twenty-sixth day

of July, nineteen hundred and ten, and said question shall be submitted
to the electors in the following words: Questionsubmitted. "Shall-the legislature to be elected in November, nineteen hundred

and ten, be requested to pass, at its first regular session, a law prohibiting the manufacture or sale within the Territory of intoxicating,

Ballots.

spirituous, vinous, and malt liquors, except for medicinal and scientific purposes?"
Said question shall be printed on the ballot in the English language and immediately following it shall be a translation of the same in the
Hawaiian language; below this, in large type, shall be printed the word " Yes," with its Hawaiian translation, and opposite those two bracketed words shall be a square, ruled spaced for the marking of a
cross; below that, in similar type, shall be the word " No," with its Hawaiian translation, bracketed, and opposite to thema similar square,

ruled space for marking. The ballot shall also contain the following instructions in both the English and Hawaiian languages:

"Vote by marking a cross (X) after the word ' Yes ' or ' No.'" Conduct ofelection.
Said special election shall be carried on under the general election
laws of the Territory of Hawaii ; but the territorial committees or
chairmen and their local committees and chairmen in charge of the

campaign for and against the proposition herein submitted may each

appoint two electors as challengers and watchers for each voting precinct, who shall have such powers and be subject to such limitations as are conferred by the existing territorial election laws upon similar

Appropriation.

representatives of political parties or candidates.
And for defraying the necessary expenses of such special election the sum of ten thousand dollars is hereby appropriated , out of any

funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the same to be paid

out upon vouchers duly approved by the secretary of Hawaii.

Approved, April 26, 1910.

May 7, 1910. [S.J. Res. 89.]

[No. 23. ] Joint Resolution Providing for certain printing and binding for the

International Bureau of American Republics.

[Pub. Res., No. 28.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

ReBpuurbelaicuso.fAmerican States of America in Congress assembled, That the allotment for print-

inPcrrienatsiend.g allotment ing and binding for Congress for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

Vol. 35, p. 1023.

nineteen hundred and ten, be, and the same is hereby, made available

for the printing and binding of the International Bureau of American

Republics in the sum of three thousand four hundred and seventy-

eight dollars and eighty-three cents.

Approved, May 7, 1910.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 24-26. 1910.

879

[No. 24. ] Joint Resolution Disapproving certain laws of the territorial legislative

May 10, 1910. [S.J. Res. 92.]

assembly of New Mexico.

[Pub. Res., No. 29.}

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United New Mexico. States of America in Congress assembled, That the act of the thirty- Legislative act re-

eighth legislative assembly of the Territory of New Mexico entitled ltaytdiinsgatpoprSioevrerda.Coun "An act to abolish the county of Sierra, created by the legislative " Infra.

assembly of eighteen hundred and eighty-four, chapter one hundred

and nine, approved April third, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, and creating a new county with different boundaries with the name of

Sierra, and for other purposes," approved March seventeenth, nine-

teen hundred and nine, and is known as chapter sixty-one of the acts

passed by said thirty-eighth legislative assembly of the Territory of New Mexico, is hereby disapproved and declared null and of no effect.

Approved, May 10, 1910.

[No. 25.] Joint Resolution Disapproving certain laws of the territorial legislative

May 10, 19:0. [S.J. Res. 93.]

assembly of New Mexico.

(Pub. Res., No. 30.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United New Mexico. States of America in Congress assembled, That the act of the thirty- Legislative act re-
eighth legislative assembly of the Territory of New Mexico entitled ltaytdiinsgatpoprSoievrerda. Coun "An act to amend an act of the thirty-eighth legislative assembly Supra.

entitled ' An act to abolish the county of Sierra created by the legis-

lative assembly of eighteen hundred and eighty-four, chapter one

hundred and nine, approved April the third, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, and creating a new county with different boundaries with the name of Sierra, and for other purposes,"999 approved March seven-

teenth, nineteen hundred and nine, and known as chapter seventyeight of the acts passed by said thirty-eighth legislative assembly of

the Territory of New Mexico, is hereby disapproved and declared null and of no effect.

Approved, May 10, 1910.

[No. 26. ] Joint Resolution To supply a deficiency in the appropriation for print-

-May 11, 1910. (H. J. Res. 206.]

ing and binding for the Treasury Department for the fiscal, year nineteen hundred

and ten, and for other purposes.

[Pub. Res., N. 31.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That there is hereby appro-

Deficiency priations.

appro-

priated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,

the following sums:

PRINTING AND BINDING, TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

meTnrte.a.sury Depart-

For printing and binding, to be done at the Government Printing inPgr.inting and bindOffice, for the Treasury Department for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, sixty-five thousand dollars.

SENATE.

Senate.

The Secretary of the Senate is hereby authorized and directed to SHearnvciocecsk. Robinson. pay to Hancock Robinson, clerk to the Honorable Le Roy Percy, of Mississippi, from February the twenty-sixth to March the fourteenth, nineteen hundred and ,ten, for clerical services rendered, from the appropriation for salaries of officers, clerks, messengers and others in the service of the Senate, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten.
For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, Inquiries and inves including compensation to stenographers to committees, at such rate tigations.
as may be fixed by the Committee to Audit and Control the Contingent

880

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 26, 27, 29. 1910.

Expenses of the Senate, but not exceeding one dollar and twenty- five

cents per printed page, to be available until expended, fifty thousand dollars .

House of Representatives.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

Folding speeches. For folding speeches, four thousand dollars.

Indian Department.

INDIAN AFFAIRS.

Yuma and Colorado

River reservations, The appropriation of five thousand dollars, contained in the Act

Cal. and Ariz. Townsite expenses.

approved

April

thirtieth,

nineteen

hundred

and

eight,

appearing on

Vol. 35, p. 77.

page seventy-seven of Volume Thirty-five, United States Statutes at

Large, for townsite purposes in the Yuma Indian Reservation, California, and the Colorado Indian Reservation, in California and Arizona,

and to survey, plat and sell the tracts set apart, in such manner as the avRaielpaabylem.ents made Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, is hereby made available,

when reimbursed, for the purpose specified in the said Act of April

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight, and if not reimbursed by the

priAadtdiiotni.onal appro- time of the approval of this resolution, the sum of five thousand dollars is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not

otherwise appropriated, to be immediately available, which shall be

reimbursed out of the funds arising from the sale of said lands, for

the said purpose specified in the foregoing Act of April thirtieth,

nineteen hundred and eight, to be continuously available, when reim-

Proviso. Advances.

bursed, until the provisions of the said Act have been carried into effect: Provided, "That this appropriation may be advanced to such

disbursing agents already designated or as may be hereafter designated by the Secretary of the Interior to pay the expenses properly arising

thereunder.

Approved, May 11, 1910.

May 18, 1910. [H. J. Res. 191.]

[No. 27. ] Joint Resolution To provide for the printing as a House document of

five hundred thousand copies of Farmers' Bulletin Numbered Three hundred and

[Pub. Res., No. 32.] ninety-one.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Farmers' No. 391.

Bulletin States of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed as a

Printing as House House document five hundred thousand copies of Farmers' Bulletin

document ordered.

Numbered Three hundred and ninety-one, entitled " Economical Use

Distribution.

of Meats in the Home, " four hundred thousand copies thereof for the

use of the House of Representatives and one hundred thousand copies thereof for the use of the Senate.

Approved, May 18, 1910.

May 19, 1910.

[No. 29. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the construction and maintenance of

[S.J. Res. 97.] wharves, piers, and other structures in Lake Michigan, adjoining certain lands in

[Pub. Res., No. 33.] Lake County, Indiana.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Lake Michigan. Wharves, etc., in,

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled,

That the

consent of Congress

authorized in Lake is hereby given that the owners of the property known as sections

County, Ind.

numbered thirty-two and twenty- nine, township thirty-seven north,

range eight west of the second principal meridian, Lake County,

Indiana, may fill the whole, or such portions thereof as they may

elect, of the bed of Lake Michigan adjacent to such property and

within the boundary established by the extension north of the east

line of said section thirty-two and the west line of said section twenty-

nine, out to a depth of water not exceeding twenty-five feet as now

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . II. RES. 29-32. 1910.

881

existing, and that such owners may build wharves, piers, and such other structures as may be useful for occupancy, or to promote navi- Provisos. gation, inside of and out to said twenty-five-foot line: Provided, That A Apprl oval. the work of construction shall be according to plans approved by the Secretary of War and Chief of Engineers: Provided further, That the tCeonnadnictei, oentcs.formain Secretary of War and Chief of Engineers may impose such conditions as in their judgment are proper as tothe construction and supervision of the work and as to the maintenance and management of the work
when completed, and on the failure at any time to comply with such conditions the consent hereby given shall be deemed to be revoked Limitation. without further action of Congress: Andprovidedfurther, That nothing herein contained shall be construed as conferring any right, power, or privilege in conflict with any law or statute of the State of Indiana,
in which said property is located, or to authorize any injury to private property or invasion of private rights.
Approved, May 19, 1910.

June 6, 1910.

[No. 30.] Joint Resolution Making an appropriation to supply a deficiency in the [H.J. Res. 221.]

appropriation for contingent expenses of the House of Representatives.

[Pub. Res., No. 34.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That to supply a deficiency atreuseof Represent-

in the appropriation for miscellaneous items and expenses of special prDieaftiiconienfcoyr acpopnrtionand select committees of the House of Representatives for the fiscal gent expenses.
year nineteen hundred and ten, exclusive of salaries and labor unless
specifically ordered by the House, there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars.

Approved, June 6, 1910.

[No. 31. ] Joint Resolution To enable the States of Missouri and Kansas to

June 7, 1910. [H.J. Res. 160.]

agree upon a boundary line and to determine the jurisdiction of crimes committed

on the Missouri River and adjacent territories.

(Pub. Res., No. 35.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the consent of the Con- Missouri and Kan-
gress of the United States is hereby given to the States of Missouri arMyaylfiniexstahenidrbdoeutnedr-and Kansas to enter into such agreement or compact asthey may deem mcriinmeesjucroimsmdiictttieodn oonf desirable or necessary, not in conflict with the Constitution of the Missouri River, etc. United States or of any law thereof, to agree upon and fix the boundary line between said States, and to cede, respectively, each to the other, such tracts or parcels of the territory of each State as may now or hereafter be separated from the main body thereof by the waters of the Missouri River, and also to adjudge and settle the jurisdiction
to be exercised by said States, respectively, over offenses arising out of the violation of the laws of said States upon the waters of the Missouri River, and in such portions of each of said States as may be separated from the main body thereof by the waters of the Missouri River as aforesaid.
Approved, June 7, 1910.

[No. 32.] Joint Resolution To enable the States of Oregon and Washington to agree

June 10, 1910. [S. J. Res. 88.]

upon a boundary line between said States where , the Columbia River forms said

boundary.

[Pub. Res. , No.36.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Oregon and WashStates ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the consent of the Con- inAguttohnorized tofixthe gress is hereby given to the States of Oregon and Washington to enter boundary line in the
into such agreement or contract as they may deem desirable or nec- Columbia River. essary, not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, or

882

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 32-35. 1910.

any law thereof, to fix the boundary line between said States where the Columbia River now forms said boundary, and to cede, respectively, each to the other, such islands, sands, tracts , or parcels of land, title to which has heretofore been in dispute; that is to say, consent is hereby given to the State of Oregon to cede all such islands, sands, tracts, or parcels of land lying on the Washington side of the line so fixed and determined to be the boundary line between said States, and consent is given to the State of Washington to cede to the State of Oregon all such islands, sands, tracts, or parcels of land lying on the Oregon side of the line so fixed as the boundary line between said States. And thereafter said line so fixed shall become and be recognized as the true boundary line between said States.
Approved, June 10, 1910.

June 11, 1910. [H. J. Res. 188.]
[Pub. Res., No. 37.]

[No. 33. ] Joint Resolution Making the Act entitled "An Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the soldiers and sailors of the confederate army and navy who died in northern prisons and were buried near the prisons where they. died, and for other purposes," apply to the confederate mound in Oakwood Ceme tery, at Chicago.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

erGarteavsoelsdioerfs,ceotcn.fed States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act entitled " An

woMoadrkCienmgeteirny, IOlal.k Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the sol-

Vol. 34, p. 56; Vol. diers and sailors of the confederate army and navy who died in north-

85, p. 567.

ern prisons and were buried near the prisons where they died , and for

other purposes," approved March ninth, nineteen hundred and six, as

heretofore continued in full force and effect, shall hereafter be con-

Ante, p. 875.

strued to apply to the confederate mound in Oakwood Cemetery, at
Chicago, anything in joint resolutions heretofore passed by Congress to the contrary notwithstanding.

Approved, June 11 , 1910.

June 22, 1910. [H. J. Res. 149.]

[No. 34. ] Joint Resolution To enable the States of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana,

and Michigan to determine the jurisdiction of crimes committed on Lake Michigan.

[Pub. Res., No. 38.]

Lake Michigan.

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Wisconsin, Illinois, States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of the Con-

Ignadniamnaay, asentdtleMichi- gress of the United States is hereby given to the States of Wisconsin; dmiictttieodnoonf.crimes com- Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan, or any two or more of them, by such
agreement or compact as they may deem desirable or necessary or

otherwise, not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States

or any law thereof, to determine and settle the jurisdiction to be exer-

cised by said States, respectively, over offenses arising out of the

violation of the laws of any of said States upon the waters of Lake

Michigan.

Approved, June 22, 1910.

June 24, 1910. [H.J. Res. 232. ]

[No. 35. ] Joint Resolution Creating a commission to represent the United States

at the celebration of the first centennial of the Republic of Mexico.

[Pub. Res. , No. 39.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

niMale.xican centen- States of America in Congress assembled, That a commission is hereby Commission author. Created, consisting of three Senators, to be appointed by the President

iUzneidtedtoStrateepsraet.sent of the Senate, and three Members of the House of Representatives, to

Ante, p. 775.

be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and

three persons, to be appointed by the President of the United States,

to represent the United States at the celebration of the first centennial

of the Republic of Mexico, at the City of Mexico, in said Republic of Mexico, during the month of September, nineteen hundred and ten.

Approved, June 24, 1910.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. II. · RES. 36-39. 1910.

883

[No.36.] Joint Resolution Limiting the editionsofthe publications of the Bureau June 25, 1910.

ofMines.

[8.J. Res. 107,1

[Pub. Res., No. 40.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe publications of the BEduirteiaounsofofMpiunbelsi.caBureau of Mines shall be published in such editions as recommended tions limited. by the Secretary of the Interior, but not to exceed ten thousand Ante, p. 742.
copies for the first edition.

SEO. 2. That whenever the edition of any of the publications of the meAedtdidteimoananldcso.piesto Bureau of Mines shall have become exhausted and "the demand for it

continues, there shall be published, on the requisition of the Secretary of the Interior, as many additional copies as the Secretary of the Interior may deem necessary to meet the demand.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

[No. 37.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of War to loan certain tents to the Appalachian Exposition Company.

June 25, 1910. [8.J.Res. 116.]

[Pub. Res., No. 41.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War siAtpiopnaCloacmhpiaanny.Expo-

be, and he is hereby, authorized, at his discretion and under such foLroanexopfotseinttiso,netca.t, restrictions as are usual in such cases, to loan to the Appalachian Knoxville, Tenn.

Exposition Company, at Knoxville, Tennessee, two hundred wall tents,

with flies, poles, and pins, for the use of said company at the exposi-

tion to be held in Knoxville, September twelfth to October twelfth,

nineteen hundred and ten, and to deliver the said property to the Appa-

lachian Exposition Company at such time prior tothe date of said exposition as may be agreed upon between the Secretary of War and said company: Provided, That the Secretary of War shall, before deliver-
ing such property, take from the Appalachian Exposition Company & good and sufficient bond for the safe return of said property in good order and condition, the whole transaction to be without expense to the Government of the United States.

PIrnodveimsno.ity bond.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

[No. 38.] Joint Resolution Extending the time for the filing of claims under the June 25, 1910.

provisions of the Act of February twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and two.

[8.J.Res. 117.]

[Pub. Res., No.42.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the timefor filing claims erPartoepseorldtiyerosf. confed-

under

the

provisions

of

the Act

of

February

twenty-seventh,

nine-

Time for filing claims for, extended.

teen hundred and two, and amendments thereto, for horses, saddles, Vol. 32, p. 48; Vol.

and bridles taken from confederate soldiers in violation of terms of 35, p. 499.

surrender and for the payment thereof, is extended for two years from

the passage of this joint resolution; and all claims not presented within this time shall be forever barred.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

[No. 39.] Joint Resolution Making an appropriation to permit the President to

June 25, 1910. [B. J. Res. 120.]

protect lands and property in Imperial Valley, California.

[Pub. Res., No. 43.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of one million CaIlm.perial Valley,
dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appro- Appropriation to protect, from over-
priated, out of any money inthe Treasury not otherwise appropriated, Ro of Colorado

to be expended by the President for the purpose of protecting the River.

lands and property in the Imperial Valley and elsewhere along the Colorado River, within the limits of the United States, against injury

or destruction by reason of the changes in the channels of the Colo-

884

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 39-41 . 1910.

icEox.penditure in Mex- rado River, and the President is authorized to expend any portion of such money within the limits of the Republic of Mexico as he may deem proper in accordance with such agreements for the purpose as he may make with the Republic of Mexico. Approved, June 25, 1910.

June 25, 1910. [H. J. Res. 116.]

[ No. 40. ] Joint Resolution To amend and correct chapter two hundred and

seventy-one of volume thirty-five, United States Statutes at Large.

[Pub. Res. , No. 44.]

Public lands.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Vol. 35, p. 845, States of America in Congress assembled, That the words " five per

amended.

centum " in the last proviso of chapter two hundred and seventy- one

of volume thirty-five of the United States Statutes at Large be

changed to read " twenty per centum," so that the said chapter when so changed shall read as follows:

auNtehcoersiszaerd.yresurveys " That the Secretary of the Interior may, in his discretion, cause to

be made, as he may deem wise under the rectangular system now pro-

vided by law, such resurveys or retracements of the surveys of public

lands as, after full investigation, he may deem essential to properly

Provisos.

mark the boundaries of the public lands remaining undisposed of:

Bona fiderights not Provided, That no such resurvey or retracement shall be so executed

impaired.

as to impair the bona fide rights or claims of any claimant, entryman,

crAeamsoedutno2t0 pfeorr,ceintn. or owner of lands affected by such resurvey or retracement : Provided further, That not to exceed twenty per centum of the total annual appropriation for surveys and resurveys of the public lands shall be

used for the resurveys and retracements authorized hereby."

Approved, June 25, 1910.

June 25, 1910. (H. J. Res. 127.] [ No. 41. ] Joint Resolution For appointment of commission to investigate the [Pub. Res. , No. 45.] matter of employer's liability and workman's compensation.

Employer's liability Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

and workman's com- States of America in Congress assembled, That a commission be, and it

pensation. Commission

to

in- is

hereby,

created,

consisting

of two

members

of

the

Senate,

to

be

vestigate, authorized. appointed by the President of the Senate, and two members of the

House of Representatives, to be appointed by the Speaker thereof, together with two persons to be selected by the President of the

United States, for the purpose of making a thorough investigation of

Report. Experts, etc.

the subject of employer's liability and workman's compensation, said commission to submit a report through the President to the Congress of the United States not later than the first Monday in December, nineteen hundred and eleven ; and any vacancy occurring on said commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
To carry out the purpose of this resolution the commission hereby

created is authorized to employ persons who are familiar with the
subject, and take such other steps as are necessary to make a thorough
examination in the matter. Recommendations.
In submitting its report the commission shall recommend to Congress

Appropriation expenses.

for such legislation as to the commission seems advisable. All expenses of said commission, together with compensation to be
fixed by the President for the two members of the commission to be
appointed by the President, for all time in which said commission

shall be actually engaged in this investigation, shall be paid out of any

funds in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, on a certificate of the chairman of said commission , who shall be selected

from the membership of the commission named under this resolution,

Provico. Limit,

and the sum necessary for carrying out the provisions of this resolution is hereby appropriated: Provided, That the total expense authorized by this resolution shall not exceed the sum of fifteen thousand

dollars, which shall include the compensation herein authorized.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SEss. II.. RES. 41-44. 1910.

885

To carry out and give effect to the provisions of this resolution, the siPoon.wer of commis commission hereby created shall have power to issue subpoenas, administer oaths, summon witnesses, require the production of books and papers, and receive testimony taken before any proper officer in any State or Territory of the United States.
Approved, June 25, 1910.

[No. 42.] Joint Resolution Construing section six of the Act of May twenty-ninth,

June 25, 1910. [H. J. Res. 164.]

nineteen hundred and eight, entitled "An Act authorizing a resurvey of certain

townships in the State of Wyoming, and for other purposes.'

[Pub. Res., No. 46.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled,

That

in

computing

the

time

Wisconsin Central Railroad grants.

for which credit shall be given to the homestead settlers, their widows Time of residence

or minor heirs, under the provisions of section six of the Act of May asltelaodwesedtetjlecrtseodnh.ome-

twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and eight, entitled " An Act author-

izing the resurvey of certain townships in the State of Wyoming, and Vol. 35, p. 466.

for other purposes," credit shall be given for the full period of actual

residence upon the lands to which they were unable to complete title: Proviso. Provided, That such credit shall not extend beyond the date of judg- mited.

ments in ejectment against such settlers rendered by the courts. SEO. 2. That the limitation of time in which second entries may EExxtteennsidoenntorfietsime

be made under section six of the Act aforesaid shall be extended for

the period of twelve months from the date of the passage of this resolution.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

June25, 1910. [No. 43.] Joint Resolution To authorize the appointment of a commission in [H. J. Res. 223.1 relation to universal peace.
[Pub. Res., No. 47.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Universal peace.
States of America in Congress assembled, That a commission of five Commission authormembers be appointed by the President of the United States to con- ized to considermeans
sider the expediency of utilizing existing international agencies for for.
the purpose of limiting the armaments of the nations of the world by

international agreement, and of constituting the combined navies of

the world an international force for the preservation of universal

peace, and to consider and report upon any other means to diminish

the expenditures of government for military purposes and to lessen

the probabilities of war: Provided, Thatthe total expense authorized

Proviso. Restriction of ex-

by this Joint Resolution shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand pense.

dollars and that the said commission shall be required to make final

report within two years from the date of the passage of this resolution.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

June 25, 1910. [No. 44.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of War to loan certain tents, [H. J. Res. 229.] cots and stretchers for the use of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, at

Detroit, Michigan, in July, nineteen hundred and ten.

(Pub. Res. , No. 48.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Benevolent and States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Protective Order of be, and he is hereby, authorized to loan, at his discretion, to the Board ElLkosa, Dnetorfoitten, tMsi,ceht.c., of Trustees of Detroit Lodge number thirty-four of the Benevolent to. and Protective Order of Elks, for the use of the Grand Lodge Reunion
of said order, to be held at Detroit, Michigan, July eleventh to July seventeenth, nineteen hundred and ten, twenty wall tents, with poles,
ridges, and pins for each, four hundred cots, and forty stretchers : Provisos. Provided, That no expense shall be caused the United States Govern- No expense. ment by the delivery and return of such property, the same to be
-88740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11--58

886

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. RES. 44-47. 1910.

Indemnity bond.

delivered to said committee designated at such time prior to the date of said reunion as may be agreed upon by the Secretary of War and Vincent Field, chairman of said Board of Trustees : And provided further, That the Secretary of War shall, before delivering such property, take from Vincent Field a good and sufficient bond for the safe return of said property in good order and condition , and the whole without expense to the United States.
Approved, June 25 , 1910.

June 25, 1910. [H. J. Res. 238. ]

[ No. 45. ] Joint Resolution To pay the officers and employees of the Senate and

House of Representatives their respective salaries for the month of June, nineteen

(Pub. Res., No. 49. ] hundred and ten, or the day of adjournment of the present session.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Congressional off cers to be paid June,

States

of

America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary of the

o19f1a0d,jsoaularrnimeesnotn. day Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives be, and they

are hereby, authorized and instructed to pay the officers and employees

of the Senate and House of Representatives, including the Capitol

police, their respective salaries for the month of June, nineteen

hundred and ten, on the day of adjournment of the present session ; beCrlsearnkdhiDreeletgoatMees.m- and the Clerk of the House of Representatives is authorized to pay,

on the said day, to Members and Delegates their allowance for clerk hire for the said month of June.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

June 25, 1910.

[H. J. Res. 240.]

[ No. 46. ] Joint Resolution To carry out the provisions of an Act to present a

replica of the statue of General Von Steuben to the German Emperor and to the

[Pub. Res., No. 50.] German Nation.

Appropriation for Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
breepnlisctaatoufe.Von Steu- States of Americain Congress assembled, That there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,

Ante, p. 605.

the sum of five thousand dollar to enable the Secretary of State, pursuant to an Act passed at the present session of Congress, to

present to the German Emperor and to the German people a replica of the statue of General Von Steuben that is to be erected in Wash-

ington, District of Columbia.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

June25, 1910. [S. J. Res, 119.]

[ No. 47. ] . Joint Resolution Authorizing the President of the United States to

invite the International Congress of Refrigeration to hold its third meeting in the

[Pub. Res., No. 51.] United States of America.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

grIenstseorfnRaetfiroingaelratCioonn-. States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the

UnIintveidteStdatteos.meet in United States be, and is hereby, authorized to invite the International

Congress of Refrigeration, nowabout to assemble in the city of Vienna,

Proviso.

No appropriation to hold its third meeting in the United States of America: Provided,

for expense.

however, That no appropriation shall be asked or granted for any

expense connected with said congress.

Approved, June 25, 1910.

PUBLIC ACTS OF THE SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES
Passed at the third session, which was begun and held at the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on Monday, the fifth day of December, 1910, and was adjourned without day on Saturday, the fourth day ofMarch, 1911.
WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT, President; JAMES SCHOOLCRAFT SHERMAN, Vice President; WILLIAM PIERCE FRYE, President of the Senate pro tempore; JOSEPH GURNEY CANNON, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

CHAP. 3.- An Act To repeal an Act authorizing the issuance of a patent to December 19, 1910.

James F. Rowell.

[H. R. 27400.]

[Public, No. 824.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That so much of the proviso

James F. Rowell. Issue of land patent

to section three of the Act approved June seventeenth, nineteen hun- toA, nrteev,opk.e6d3.4. dred and ten, entitled "An Act to open to settlement and entry under

the general provisions of the homestead laws of the United States certain lands in the State of Oklahoma, and for other purposes," which

proviso reads as follows: "That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to issue a patent in fee for northwest quarter

of section thirty, township two north, range eleven, West Indian meridian, Comanche County, Oklahoma, to James F. Rowell, a full member of the Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Tribes of Indians of

Oklahoma, who has heretofore received no allotment of land from any source; this to be in lieu of all claims to any allotment of land or money settlement in lieu of an allotment," be, and the same is hereby, repealed.

Approved, December 19, 1910.

CHAP. 4.--An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Wash- December 20, 1910. .

ington Sanitary Housing Company," approved April twenty-third, nineteen hundred

[S. 5651.]

and four.

(Public, No. 325.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That section two of an Act DiWsatsrhicitnogftCoonluSmabniia-.

entitled "An. Act to incorporate the Washington Sanitary Housing ptaarnyy, HDo.uCs.ing Com-

Company," approved April twenty-third, nineteen hundred and four, alIlnocwreedas. e ofdividend

be amended by striking out the words " four per centum " in the pro- Vol. 33, p. 302,

viso and substituting the words "five per centum."

amended .

Approved, December 20, 1910.

CHAP. 5.-An Act To provide for the extension of Reno road, in the District December 20, 1910.

of Columbia,

[S. 6910.]

(Public, No. 326.)

Beit enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That under and in accordance DiRsetnrioctrooafdC.olumbla.

with the provisions of subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code foCroenxtdeenmdniinngg land of Law for the District of Columbia, within six months after the pas- Vol. 84, p. 161.

887

888

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. s. 5-7. 1910.

sage of this Act, the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be,

and they are hereby, authorized and directed to institute in the supreme court of the District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the

land that may be necessary for the extension of Reno road, as laid

down onthe permanent system of highway plans, from Fessenden street

to Chesapeake street, with a width of one hundred feet.

Damagesassessed as benefits.

SEC. 2.. That the entire amount found to be due and awarded by the

jury in said proceeding as damages for and in respect of the land to

Proviso.

be condemned for said extension, plus the costs and expenses of said

Limit of assessment. proceeding, shall be assessed by the jury as benefits: Provided, That

nothing in said subchapter one of chapter fifteen of said code shall be

construed to authorize the jury to assess less than the aggregate amount

of the damages awarded for and in respect of the land to be condemned

Appropriation for and the costs and expenses of the proceeding hereunder.

expenses, etc.

SEC. 3. That there is hereby appropriated from the revenues of the

District of Columbia an amount sufficient to pay the necessary costs

and expenses of the condemnation proceedings taken pursuant hereto
Payment of awards, and for the payment of amounts awarded as damages, to be repaid to the District of Columbia from the assessments for benefits and cov-

ered into the Treasury to the credit of the revenues of the District of Columbia.

Approved, December 20, 1910.

December 21, 1910. [H. R. 21331.]
[Public, No. 327.]

CHAP. 6.--A Act For the purchase of land for widening Park road, in the District of Columbia.
Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

DiPsatrikctrooafdCoNlWum. bia. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Commissioners of

wiPduerncihnags.e ofland for the District of Columbia be, and they are hereby, authorized and directed to purchase, for widening Park road, the triangular lot desig-

nated as " Lot A," in Chapin Brown's subdivision of parts of Mount

Pleasant and Pleasant Plains, called " Ingleside," as recorded in liber

county numbered eight, folio thirty-seven, of the records of the office

of the surveyor of the District of Columbia, at a price deemed by

them to be reasonable, not exceeding the sum of three thousand six hundred dollars.

Appropriation . Half from District

SEC. 2. That the sum of three thousand six hundred dollars, or so

revenues.

much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated for the pur-

chase of said lot, payable one half from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other half out of any moneys in the United States

Treasury not otherwise appropriated.

Approved, December 21, 1910.

December 23, 1910. CHAP. 7.-An Act Making appropriations to supply urgent deficiencies in [H. R. 29195.] appropriations for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and
[Public, No. 328.] eleven, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United apUprogpernitatdieofnisc.iencies States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the following sums be,
and are hereby, appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to supply urgent deficiencies in appropriations for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, and for other purposes, namely:

StDateep. artment of

DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

Foreign intercourse.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES , FOREIGN MISSIONS.

Contingent expenses, missions.

To enable the President to provide, at the public expense, all such

stationery, blanks, records, and other books, seals, presses, flags, and

signs as he shall think necessary for the several embassies and lega-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 7. 1910.

889

tions in the transaction of their business, and also for rent, postage, telegrams, furniture, including typewriters and exchange of same, messenger service, compensation of kavasses, guards, dragomans, and porters, including compensation of interpreters, and the compensation of dispatch agents at London, New York, and San Francisco, and for traveling and miscellaneous expenses of embassies and legations, and for printing in the Department of State, and for loss on bills of exchange to and from embassies and legations, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, fifty thousand dollars.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Treasury Department.

Compensation in lieu of moieties : For compensation in lieu of liCeuoomfpmeonisetaiteis.on in moieties in certain cases under the customs revenue laws, ninety thousand dollars .

For stationery for the Treasury Department and its several bureaus on account of fiscal years as follows:
For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, sixteen thousand three hundred and twenty-seven dollars and seventy-two cents.
For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, three thousand two hundred and forty-six dollars and seventy-five cents.

Stationery.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Public buildings.

Columbus, Ohio : For rental of temporary quarters, six thousand dollars.
Grand Rapids, Michigan: For rental of temporary quarters, seven thousand three hundred dollars.
To pay the amount found due by the accounting officers of the Treasury under Audit Number eighteen thousand four hundred and forty-four, for electric current furnished the United States building at Alexandria, Louisiana, from December first, nineteen hundred, to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight, four thousand three hundred and six dollars and forty-four cents.

Columbus, Ohio.
Grand Rapids, Mich. ·
Alexandria, La.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

WarDepartment.

For reimbursement to the Broadway Bargain House, New York HoBursoea. dway Bargain City, the amount paid by said firm for clothing purchased from the United States and paid for, but not delivered, three thousand three hundred and fifty-seven dollars and four cents.

NAVAL ESTABLISHMENT.

Navy.

PUBLIC WORKS, BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOCKS.

To continue work on dry dock numbered four, navy yard, New yaNrde.w York navy. York, under present authorized limit of cost, five hundred and fifty Drydock. thousand dollars.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

Interior. Department.

CAPITOL.

Capitol.

For work at Capitol and for general repairs thereof, including flags .for the east and west fronts of the center of the Capitol and for Senate and House Office Buildings; flagstaffs, halyards, and tackle, wages of
mechanics and laborers; purchase, maintenance, and driving of office vehicle, and not exceeding one hundred dollars for the purchase of technical and necessary reference books and city directory, and for special repairs Senate wing, two thousand five hundred dollars.

General repairs, etc.

890

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 7. 1910.

Sinclair-Scott Company.

To pay the Sinclair-Scott Company for damage to property of said

company while temporarily in possession of the Government, and in

the charge of the Superintendent of the United States Capitol Building
and Grounds, one thousand six hundred and thirty-six dollars and fourteen cents.

Geological Survey.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

Alaska mineral re-

Bources.

For a continuation of the investigation of the mineral resources of

Alaska, to continue available until the close of the fiscal year nineteen

hundred and twelve, one hundred thousand dollars.

Public lands.

PUBLIC-LAND SERVICE.

Per diem to sur ey-

org.

That all surveyors heretofore or hereafter employed under the

Ante, p. 741.

sundry civil appropriation Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen

hundred and ten, to make surveys or resurveys shall, in addition

to the compensation provided for therein, receive not more than

three dollars per diem in lieu of subsistence for each day they have

heretofore been or may hereafter be on duty under such employment.

Judicial.

JUDICIAL .

United StatesCourts.

SALARIES, CIRCUIT JUDGES.

Commerce Court.
Circuit Judges. Ante, p. 540.

For the salaries of five additional circuit judges, at the rate of seven thousand dollars per annum, as provided for in the act creating the Commerce Court, for the period from January first to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, seventeen thousand five hundred dollars.
COMMERCE COURT.

Expenses ofjudges. For the expense allowance of five additional judges, at the rate.

of one thousand five hundred dollars per annum, from January first

to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, three thousand

Clerk.

seven hundred and fifty dollars ; For clerk, at the rate of four thousand dollars per annum, for the

Deputy clerk,

same period, two thousand dollars ; For deputy clerk, at the rate of two thousand five hundred dollars

per annum, for the same period, one thousand two hundred and

Marshal.

fifty dollars; For marshal, at the rate of three thousand dollars per annum,

Deputy marshal.

for the same period, one thousand five hundred dollars ; For deputy marshal, at the rate of two thousand five hundred dol-
lars per annum, for the same period, one thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars ;

Contingent expenses, etc.

For rent of necessary quarters in Washington, District of Columbia,

and elsewhere, and furnishing same for the Commerce Court ; for

necessary traveling expenses of the court, its officials and employees ;

for books, periodicals, stationery, printing, and binding; for pay of

bailiffs and all other necessary employees not otherwise specifically

provided for, and for such other miscellaneous expenses as may be

approved by the presiding judge, thirty thousand dollars ; in all, thirty-nine thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.

SALARIES, DISTRICT JUDGES.

New York eastern

district.

For the salary of the additional district judge for the eastern dis-

juPdagye.of additional trict of New York, at the rate of six thousand dollars per annum,

Ante, p. 838.

from January first to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven,

three thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 7, 8. 1910.

891

LEGISLATIVE . SENATE .

Senate.

For compiling and indexing reports and hearings when necessary Compiling, etc., reof Senate committees and joint committees of the Senate and House poArnttsea,npd. 7h6e6a.rings. of Representatives under Pitman Pulsifer, indexer, as provided in

the Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government, approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten,

Thirty-sixth Statutes, page seven hundred and sixty-six, six thousand five hundred dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

For additional amount for the expenses of the joint commission suJroeitnytbcoonmdmsi.ssion on

created by the urgent deficiency appropriation Act approved August

126.

fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, to inquire into rates of premium for

bonds of officers or employees of the United States, including all

necessary expert, clerical, and other personal services, three thousand

dollars.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

House of Representatives.

For miscellaneous items and expenses of special and select com- etMci.scellaneous items, mittees, exclusive of salaries and labor, unless specifically ordered

by the House of Representatives on account of fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, five thousand dollars.

To pay amount due for coal furnished the heating, lighting, and ,foHreaCtoinnggr, eetscs. ,ipolnaanlt power plant of the Capitol and House and Senate Office buildings buildings. during the last half of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, four Coal. thousand eight hundred and seventy-five dollars and twenty-eight

cents; and coal furnished, and to be furnished, for said plant during beFpoaricdurfroernftryoemafruteol the current fiscal year shall be paid for out of appropriations made and oil appropria-

for fuel and oil under contingent expenses of the Senate and House tions.

of Representatives. PRINTING AND BINDING.

Public printing and binding.

To enable the Public Printer to take over certain printing work WTreaantshfeerroBfuprreianuting done in the central office of the Weather Bureau there is hereby trans- appropriationstoGovferred from the appropriations for salaries, office of the Chief of oOfmfmicee.nt Printing
Weather Bureau, and for the maintenance of a printing office in the Ante, pp. 417, 418. Weather Bureau at Washington for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, not to exceed the sum of twenty thousand dollars, to be expended by the Public Printer for printing and binding for- said bureau for the balance of the current fiscal year.

JUDGMENTS COURT OF CLAIMS.

Judgments, Courtof Claims.

For the payment of the judgments rendered by the Court of Claims, reported to Congress at its present session in House Document numbered one thousand one hundred and forty-one, one hundred and forty-six thousand three hundred and fifteen dollars and seventyfour cents: Provided, That none of said judgments shall be paid until the right of appeal shall have expired.
Approved, December 23, 1910.

Payment. PArpopveiaslo..

CHAP. 8.--An Act To amend the Act regulating the height of buildings in the

December 30, 1910. [S. 9439.]

District of Columbia, approved June first, nineteen hundred and ten.

[Public, No. 329.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act entitled "An District ofColumbia.

Act to regulate the height of buildings in the District of Columbia," Height ofbuildings. approved June first, nineteen hundred and ten, be, and it is hereby, edA.nte, p. 454, amendamended by adding at the end of the third paragraphof section five of abCoovmeplleitmiintg pcehrumricthsaid Act the following proviso: "Provided, That any church the con- ted.
struction of which had been undertaken but not completed prior to the

892

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 8, 9. 1910-1911.
passage of this Act shall be exempted from the limitations of this paragraph, and the Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall cause to be issued a permit for the construction of any such church to a height of ninety-five feet above the level of the adjacent curb. "
Approved, December 30, 1910.

January 12, 1911. (S. 1872.]
[Public, No. 330.]

CHAP. 9.- An Act Setting apart a tract of land to be used as a cemetery by the Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Central City, Colorado.

Public lands.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States ofAmericain Congress assembled, That the Secretaryof the Interior

loGwrsa, notf CteontOrdald CFietly-, be, and is hereby, authorized to set apart, from and out of the mineral

Colo., as a cemetery. lands in Eureka mining district, Gilpin County, State of Colorado (such

lands having been heretofore returned to the land office at Central City

as mineral lands), a tract of land not exceeding seven acres in extent, to be used by the Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Central City,

Description.

Colorado, as a cemetery, and being all that portion of the followingdescribed tract not included in any prior valid claim, namely:
Beginning at corner numbered one, a granite stone twenty-four by

nine by four inches, set fifteen inches in the ground, chiseled ... F.9

whence the west quarter corner section seven, township three south, range seventy-two west of the sixth principal meridian bears south seventy-six degrees twenty-five minutes and six seconds east nine " thousand three hundred and thirteen and two-tenths feet; corner num-

bered two, survey numbered seven hundred and eighty-nine, Carroll lode, bears north eighty-one degrees and twenty-two minutes east five

hundred and eighteen and three-tenths feet; southwest corner of stone powder magazine bears south eighty-six degrees and six minutes east

one hundred and twenty -five and eight-tenths feet; thence south twenty-one degrees and eighteen minutes west four hundred and

thirty feet to corner numbered two, a granite stone twenty-seven by

ten by six inches, set fifteen inches in the ground, chiseled 0.0.F whence cross cut on ledge of rock chiseled W x 2 bears north twentyseven degrees and twenty-three minutes east forty-one and threetenths feet; thence north eighty-three degrees and twenty-seven minutes west five hundred and eighty-nine and four-tenths feet, to corner numbered three, a quartz stone twenty-seven by eight by six inches, set eight inches in the ground, on bed rock, with mound of

stones, chiseled 1.0.0. , whence a cross cut on ledge of rock chiseled W x 8 bears south sixty-four degrees and thirty- three minutes west

twenty-four and nine-tenths feet; thence north twenty-one degrees and eighteen minutes east five hundred and eighty feet to corner numbered four, a granite stone thirty by ten by five inches, set fifteen

inches in the ground, chiseled ro.. whence cross cut on ledge of rock chiseled W x 4 bears south thirty-five degrees and fifty- four minutes west ninety-six and nine-tenths feet; thence south sixty- eight degrees and forty-two minutes east five hundred and seventy feet to

Patent to issue.

place of beginning, containing six and sixty-one one-hundredths acres, said lands now being in the use and occupation of said association.
SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized to confirm the title to the said described tract of land to

the Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Central City, and to cause

a patent to be issued for said land to be used for cemetery purposes

Proviso. Subsurface mineral

only:

Provided,

That nothing contained

in this grant shall be so con-

rights retained.

strued as to prevent future applications for the extension of lode

claims within the confines of the cemetery and claiming the mineral

found there, all mining operations within the bounds of the land there

set apart to the Independent Order of Odd Fellows for cemetery pur-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 9-12. 1911.
poses to be conducted beneath the surface and so as in no way to disturb the graves of the dead buried there or to mar the surface of the ground.
Approved, January 12, 1911.

893

CHAP. 10.-An Act Granting to the city of Bozeman, Montana, certain lands to

January 12, 1911. [8.5362.]

enable the city to protect its source of water supply from pollution.

[Public, No.331.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Public lands. States of America in Congress assembled, That to enable the city to Granted to Boze-

protect its source of water supply from pollution there is hereby man, Mont. granted to the incorporated city of Bozeman, in the State of Montana,

the following-described public land, to wit: The northeast quarter of

the northeast quarter of section twenty-eight, township one south, range six east, of the principal meridian in Montana, embracing thirty-

nine and two hundredths acres, more or less: Provided, That the city PPraoyvmiseont. shall pay for said land the sum of two dollars and fifty cents per acre.

Approved, January 12, 1911.

CHAP. 11.-An Act To authorize the city of Sturgis, Michigan, to construct a dam across the Saint Joseph River.

January12, 1911. [H.R. 6867.]
[Public, No. 332. ]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United StatesofAmerica in Congressassembled, Thatthecity of Sturgis, acorpo- SStauirngtiJso, Mseipchh.R,imvaery.
ration organized under the laws of the State of Michigan, its successors dam. and assigns, be, and they are hereby, authorized to construct, main-

tain, and operate a dam across the Saint Joseph River, at or near its intersection with the section line between sections one and two, town-

ship six south, range eleven west, Saint Joseph County, inthe State of Michigan, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June Vol. 34, p. 396.

twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled 'An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six.'

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend , or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved."

Approved, January 12, 1911.

CHAP. 12.-An Act To authorize the Great Northern Development Company to construct a dam across the Mississippi River from a point in Hennepin County to a point in Anoka County, Minnesota.

January 12, 1911. [H. R. 25775.]
(Public, No. 333.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Great Northern MGirsesaitssNipoprithReirvnerD.eDevelopment Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the velopment Company State of Maine, with special permit to do business in Minnesota, its CmraeyekdRaapmi,dsa, tMiCnono.n successors and assigns, be, and they are hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across the Mississippi River at Coon Creek Rapids from a point in lot one, section two, township one hundred and nineteen, range twenty-one, Hennepin County, to a point in lot four, section twenty-seven, township thirty-one, range twentyfour, Anoka County, all in the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hun- Vol. 34, p. 386. dred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six. "
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, January 12, 1911.

894

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 18, 22, 25 , 31. 1911 .

January 16, 1911. CHAP. 18.-An Act To authorize the city of Drayton, North Dakota, to construct (H. K. 26583.] a bridge across the Red River of the North.
(Public, No. 334.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

NoRrethd. River of the States of America in Congress assembled, That the city of Drayton, in

Drayton, N. Dak., the State of North Dakota, be, and is hereby, authorized to construct,

may bridge.

maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto, across the Red

River of the North at a point suitable to the interests of navigation,

at or near the city of Drayton, between said city of Drayton, in the

Vol. 34, p. 84.

State of North Dakota, and the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construc-

Amendment.

tion of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-three, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, January 16, 1911.

January 19, 1911. CHAP. 22.-An Act Authorizing the President to drop officers from the rolls of

[S. 7635.]

the army under certain conditions.

[Public, No. 335.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United AOfrfmiyc. ers to be States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and
dropped if absent he is hereby, authorized to drop from the rolls of the armyany officer without leave, etc.
who is absent from duty three months without leave, or who has been

absent in confinement in a prison or penitentiary for more than three months after final conviction by acivil court of competent jurisdiction ;

and no officer so dropped shall be eligible for reappointment.

Approved, January 19, 1911.

January 23, 1911. [S. 1997.]
[Public, No. 336.]

CHAP. 25.-An Act To limit and fix the compensation of the appraiser of merchandise at the port of San Francisco.

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

SApapnraFirsaenrc'isscos,alCaarly. States of America in Congress Assembled, That the appraiser of mer-

increased.

chandise at San Francisco shall receive a salary of four thousand dol-

532R,.amS.e,nBdeecd. . 2730, P. lars per annum.

Inconsistent laws

repealed.

SEC. 2. That all laws and parts of laws inconsistent herewith are

repealed.

Approved, January 23, 1911.

February 2, 1911. (S. 10053.]
[Public, No. 337.]

CHAP. 31.--An Act To extend the time within which the Baltimore and Wash-
ington Transit Company of Maryland shall be required to put in operation its railway in the District of Columbia, under the provisions of an Act of Congress approved June eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, as amended by an Act of Congress approved May twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and eight.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

DBiastlrticitmofoCroelumabniad. States of America in Congress assembled, That the time within which Washington Transit the Baltimore and Washington Transit Company of Maryland is CoTmipmaenfoyr.completion required to put in operation its railway in the District of Columbia,

extended .
Vol. 29, p. 261. Vol. 35, p, 473.

under the provisions of an Act of Congress approved June eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, as amended by an Act approved May twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and eight, be, and the same is

hereby, extended for a term of fifteen months from the twenty-eighth

day of May, nineteen hundred and ten, and that all the franchises,

rights, privileges, and powers conferred by said Acts, or either of

them, may be enjoyed and exercised by said railway, or its successors

in interest, as fully and completely as if said railway had been com-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 31-33. 1911.

895

pleted and put in operation prior to May twenty-ninth, nineteen hunProviso.
dred and ten: Provided, That said Baltimore and Washington Transit Limitations, etc., Company shall be subject to all the duties; conditions, and limitations continued.
providedin the Acts of Congress approved June eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, and May twenty- ninth, nineteen hundred and
eight, and not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
Approved, February 2, 1911.

CHAP. 32.--An Act To provide for the sale of lands acquired under the provisions of the reclamation Act and which are not needed for the purposes of that Act.

February 2, 1911. [H. R. 25235.]
(Public, No. 338.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Reclamation act.

States of America in Congress assembled , That whenever in the opinion

folrandwsornkost

of the Secretary of the Interior any lands which have been acquired nueneddeerd.

under the provisions of the Act of June seventeenth, nineteen hundred Vol. 32, p. 388.

and two (Thirty-second Statutes, page three hundred and eighty-eight),

commonly called the "reclamation Act," or under the provisions ofany

Act amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, for any irrigation

works contemplated by said reclamation Act are not needed for the

purposes for which they were acquired, said Secretary of the Interior

may cause said lands, together with the improvements thereon, to be

appraised by three disinterested persons, to be appointed by him, and Appraisal, etc.

thereafter to sell the same for not less than the appraised value at pub-

lic auction to the highest bidder, after giving public notice of the time

and place of sale by posting upon the land and by publication for not

less than thirty days in a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the land.
SEC. 2. That upon payment of the purchase price, the Secretary of etCc.onveyance of title, the Interior is authorized by appropriate deed to convey all the right,

title, and interest of the United States of, in, and to said lands to the

purchaser at said sale, subject, however, to such reservations, limita- Proviso. tions, or conditions as said Secretary may deem proper: Provided, That Limitation..

not over one hundred and sixty acres shall be sold to any one person.

SEO.

3.

That the

moneys derived from

the

sale of

such

lands

shall Proceeds to credit ofirrigation project.

be covered into the reclamation fund and be placed to the credit of the

project for which such lands had been acquired.

Approved, February 2, 1911.

CHAP. 33.-An Act Providing for the appointment of deputy clerks to the United States circuit court of appeals.
fti
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

February 3, 1911. [H. R. 15665.]
[Public, No. 339.] UnitedStatescourts

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That one deputy of the clerk apCpieraclusi.t courts of of each circuit court of appeals may be appointed by the court on

the application of the clerk and may be removed at the pleasure of tthDoreipzuetdy. clerks au.

the court.

In case of the death of the clerk his deputy shall, unless

Vol. 26, p. 826. Duties, etc..

removed, continue in office and perform the duties of the clerk in his Post,p. 1132.

name until a clerk is appointed and qualified; and for the defaults or

misfeasances in office of any such deputy, whether in the lifetime of

the clerk or after his death, the clerk and his estate and the sureties

on his official bond shall be liable, and his executor or administrator

shall have such remedy for such defaults or misfeasances committed after his death as the clerk would be entitled to if the same had occurred

in his lifetime.

Approved, February 3, 1911.

836

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III CHS. 34, 35. 1911.

February 7. 1971 B. & 2000 ;

2

.

Parte ezdinded.

CHAP. 24.--An Act Providing for second homestead and desert-land entries.
Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That any person who, prior to the approval of this Act, has made entry under the homestead or desert-land laws, but who, subsequently to such entry , from any cause shall have lost, forfeited, or abandoned the same, shall be entitled to the benefits of the homestead or desert- land laws as though such former entry bad not been made, and any person applying for asecond homestead or desert land entry under this Act shall furnish a description and the date of his former entry: Provided, That the provisions of this Act shall not apply to any person whose former entry was canceled for fraud, or who relinquished his former entry for a valuable consideration in excess of the filing fees paid by him on his original entry.
Approved, February 3, 1911 .

February2, 1911. CHAP. 35.-An Act To quiet title to certain land in Dona Ana County, New
Mexico.
[Pubble, Ko. 241]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

K.DMoenza Ana County, States of America in Congress assembled, That in all cases where per-

Betten on landa ex- sons have made a claim or claims to land in Dona Ana County, New CBernaeyd gfrraonmt Bello Mexico, by virtue or under color or bona fide claim of right or title

patAelnltoewedhomestead derived from the Mexican land grant, known as the Refugio Colony grant, in said county, and which grant was confirmed by the final

decree of the Court of Private Land Claims, rendered in nineteen

hundred and two, and where such person or persons in good faith and for a valuable consideration have purchased such lands and occupied

and improved the same prior to the rendition of said decree, in the bona fide belief that said lands were embraced in and a part of said

grant and which lands were excluded therefrom by the final survey of

said grant ordered by said court, and where said persons, their assigns,

and successors in interest have used, improved, and continued in the

actual possession of the same as according to the lines of the original purchase, and where no valid adverse right or title (except of the United States) exists, such occupants, claimants, or purchasers may make entry and the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall

cause patents to issue for the same, after having such lands surveyed

under existing laws, on payment of the fees and commissions required

on original homestead entries, upon first making proof of the facts as

required in this section , under regulations to be provided by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, joint entries 'being admissible

by coterminous proprietors to such an extent as will enable them to

Proteas. Mineral,

etc.,

lands

adjust

their

respective

boundaries:

Provided,

That the right to make

excluded .

entry herein given shall not extend to lands containing deposits of

gold, silver, copper, oil, coal, or other valuable minerals: And proliEnxeissrteicnoggsnuibzdeidv.ision vided, That whenever it shall be made to appear by petition from the
occupants of such land that injury to permanent improvements would

result from running the lines of the public survey through such per-

manent improvements, the Commissioner of the General Land Office

may recognize existing lines of subdivisions.

Assistance to claimants.

SEC. 2. That the Commissioner of the General Land Office is hereby

authorized to render to the claimants under this Act such assistance as

Expenses.

he may deem necessary in the matter of the preparation and submission of proofs hereunder, and all actual expenses incurred by clerks of the General Land Office or others detailed by the commissioner in rendering the necessary assistance to such claimants, including per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence, may be paid from the appropriation for expenses of inspectors, General Land Office.

Approved, February 3, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 36-39. 1911. .

897

CHAP. 36.--An Act Granting to the Ozark Power and Water Company authority to construct a dam across White River, Missouri.

February 4, 1911. [S. 10268. ]
[Public, No. 342.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United White River, Mo. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Ozark Power and Ozark Power and

Water Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State Wdaatme,rinCToamnpeaynCyoumnatyy.

of Missouri, with principal offices in the city of Saint Louis, Missouri,

its successors and assigns, be, and they are hereby, authorized to con-

struct, maintain, and operate a dam across the White River at a point

suitable to the interests of navigation at or near its northernmost point,

in Taney County, Missouri, approximately ten miles downstream from

the towns of Hollister and Branson and four miles upstream from the

town of Forsyth, county seat of Taney County, in the State of Mis-

souri, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June Vol. 34, p. 336.

twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend

an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across

navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and

six.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend , or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 4, 1911.

CHAP. 37.-An Act To authorize the construction, maintenance, and operation of a bridge across the Tombigbee River near Iron Wood Bluff, in Itawamba County, Mississippi.

February 4, 1911. [S.10301.]
[Public, No. 343.]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the board of super- Tombigbee River,

visors of Itawamba County,

Mississippi,

is

hereby authorized

to con-

Itawamba County maybridge, near Iron

struct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across Wood Bluff.

the Tombigbee River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation

near Iron Wood Bluff, in Itawamba County, Mississippi, in accord-

ance with the provisions of an Act entitled " An Act to regulate Vol. 34, p. 84.

the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 4, 1911.

CHAP. 38.-An Act To transfer Saint Joseph Bay, of the Pensacola collection February 6, 1911.

district, in the State of Florida, to the Apalachicola collection district.

[II. R. 20366.]

[Public, No. 344.]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Customs. States of America in Congress assembled, That Saint Joseph Bay Saint Joseph Bay,

Harbor, in the State of Florida, be transferred from the Pensacola AFplaal.,acthriacnoslfaerdrisetdrictto.

collection district, and the same is hereby added to the Apalachicola R. S. sec. 2562, p . 506,

collection district.

amended.

Approved, February 6, 1911.

CHAP. 39.-An Act Transferring Maries County to the eastern division of the February 7, 1911.

eastern judicial district of Missouri.

[H. R.21220.]

(Public, No. 345.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Missouri eastern ju States of America in Congress assembled, That the county of Maries, dicial district.
MariesCounty transin the State of Missouri, be detached from the western judicial dis- ferred to.
trict and attached to the eastern division of the eastern judicial district PVroolv.i2s4o,. p. 421. of the State of Missouri: Provided, That courts of the western dis- Pending causes.

trict shall retain and exercise jurisdiction over all causes and proceed-

898

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 39, 42, 43: 1911 .
ings, civil and criminal, arising in or coming from said county and begun and pending at the date of the taking effect of this Act, and of all criminal offenses committed in said county prior to the date this Act goes into effect, the prosecution of which has not been begun, as completely as if this Act were not passed.
Approved, February 7, 1911.-

February 9, 1911. [S. 9449. )
[Public, No. 346.]

CHAP. 42.--An Act To provide a commission to secure plans and designs for a monument or memorial to the memory of Abraham Lincoln."

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

CoLmimnicsoslinon Mceremaotreida.l States of America in Congress assembled, That William H. Taft, Shelby

etcC.omposition,duties, M. Cullom, Joseph G. Cannon, George Peabody Wetmore, Samuel Walker McCall, Hernando D. Money, and Champ Clark are hereby

created a commission, to be known as the Lincoln Memorial Commis-

sion, to procure anu determine upon a location, plan, and design for a

monument or memorial in the city of Washington, District of Colum-

bia, to the memory of Abraham Lincoln, subject to the approval of

Congress.

Employment of artists, etc.

SEC. 2. That in the discharge of its duties hereunder said commis-

sion is authorized to employ the services of such artists, sculptors,

architects, and others as it shall determine to be necessary, and to

ArCtos.mmission of Fine avail itself of the services or advice of the Commission of Fine Arts,

Ante, p. 371.

created by the Act approved May seventeenth, nineteen hundred

and ten.

Selection of site.

SEC. 3. That the construction of the monument or memorial, herein

and hereby authorized, shall be upon such site as shall be determined

by the commission herein created, and approved by Congress, and Construction, etc. said construction shall be entered upon as speedily as practicable after

Contracts. Cost. Filling vacancies.
Appropriation,

the plan and design therefor is determined upon and approved by Congress, and shall be prosecuted to completion, under the direction of said commission, and the supervision of the Secretary of War, under a contract or contracts hereby authorized to be entered into by said Secretary in a total sum not exceeding two million dollars.
SEO. 4. That vacancies occurring in the membership of the commission shall be filled by appointment by the President of the United States.
SEC. 5. That to defray the necessary expenses of the commission

herein created and the cost of procuring plans or designs for a memo-

rial or monument, as herein provided, there is hereby appropriated

Annual estimates. the sum of fifty thousand dollars, to be immediately available. SEC. 6. That said commission shall annually submit to Congress an

estimate of the amount of money necessary to be expended each year

to carry on the work herein authorized. Inconsistent laws

repealed.

SEC. 7. That all Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent herewith are

Vol. 32, p. 486. hereby repealed .

Approved, February 9, 1911 .

February 13, 1911. CHAP. 43.-An Act To amend section one hundred and eighty-three of the

(S. 4239. ]

Revised Statutes.

(Public, No. 347.)

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

tiOoanst.hs in investiga. States of America in Congress assembled, That section one hundred

amRe.nSd.e, dse. c. 183, p. 29, and eighty-three of the Revised Statutes of the United States be, and

is hereby, amended so as to read as follows;

Oaths to witnesses. "SEC. 183. Any officer or clerk of any of the departments lawfully

Executive officers may administer.

detailed

to

investigate

frauds

on,

or

attempts

to

defraud ,

the

Govern-

ment, or any irregularity or misconduct of any officer or agent of the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 43-46. 1911 .

899

United States, and any officer of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps or adAdremdy. , Navy, etc., Revenue-Cutter Service, detailed to conduct an investigation, and the recorder, and if there be none the presiding officer, of any military, naval, or Revenue-Cutter Service board appointed for such purpose, shall have authority to administer an oath to any witness attending to testify or depose in the course of such investigation. "
Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 44.-An Act To provide for the erection of a monument to commemorate the battle of Guilford Court House, North Carolina, and in memory of Major-General Nathanael Greene and the officers and soldiers of the Continental Armywho participated with him in the battle of Guilford Court House, North Carolina.

Febr[uSa.r5y37198.,]1911. [Public, No. 348.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Guilford Court States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of thirty thou- House,N.C.
sand dollars be, and the same is hereby, authorized to be appropriated, thAoprpirzoepdrifaotrionbattalueout of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the field memorial monuerection of a monument on the battlefield of Guilford Court House, in mePnostt,, p.1402. Guilford County, North Carolina, to commemorate the great victory.
won there on March fifteenth, seventeen hundred and eighty-one, by the American forces, commanded by Major-General Nathanael Greene,
and in memory of Major-General Nathanael Greene and the officers
and soldiers of the Continental Army who participated in the battle of Guilford Court House: Provided, That the money authorized to be Provisos. appropriated as aforesaid shall be expended under the direction of the Approval ofplans.

Secretary of War, and the plans, specifications, and designs for such monument shall be first approved by the Secretary of War, with the assistance of the officers of the Guilford Battle Ground Company, before any money so authorized to be appropriated is expended: And provided further, That the site for said monument within the limits of said battlefield of Guilford Court House shall be selected by the Secretary of War and donated free of cost to the United States: And provided further, That when said monument is erected the responsibility for the care and keeping of the same shall be and remain with the Guilford Battle Ground Company, it being expressly understood that the United States shall have no responsibility therefor; and it
being further understood that said Guilford Battle Ground Company shall provide for the public use an open highway thereto.
Approved, February 13, 1911.

Donation ofsite. Future care.

CHAP. 45.-An Act For the relief of John M. Blankenship.

February 18, 1911. [S. 6873.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Public, No. 349.1
States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and NJoahvny. M. Blankenhe is hereby, authorized, by and with the advice and consent of the ship maybeappointed Senate, to appoint John M. Blankenship an ensign in the United States ensign, retired.
Navy on the retired list.

Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 46.- An Act To provide for the lading or unlading of vessels at night, the preliminary entry of vessels, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

Febru(Sa.r6y01113.,]1911. [Public, No. 850.]

SECTION 1. That upon arrival at any port in the United States of CLuasdtiongms.and unladany vessel or other conveyance from a foreign port or place, either ing vessels, etc., at

directly or by way of another port in the United States, or upon such night. arrival from another port in the United States of any vessel or other sVpoelc.i3a4l, lpi.c6e3n3s.e for.

900

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 46. 1911.

conveyance belonging to a line designated by the Secretary of the

Treasury as a common carrier of bonded merchandise, and, after due

report and entry of such vessel in accordance with existing law or due

report, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may

prescribe, of the arrival of such other conveyances , the collector of

customs, with the concurrence of the naval officer at ports where there is a naval officer, shall grant, upon proper application therefor, a

special license to lade or unlade the cargo of any such vessel or other

Preliminary entryto conveyance at night ; that is to say, between sunset and sunrise.

boarding officer.

SEC. 2. That the master of any vessel from a foreign port or place,

Oath,manifest, etc. upon arrival within a customs collection district of the United States,

bound to a port of entry in such district, may make preliminary entry

of the vessel by making oath or affirmation to the truth ofthe statements contained in his original manifest and delivering his said

original manifest to the customs officer who shall board such vessel

within such district, with a copy of said original manifest for the use onDiasrcrihvaarlg,e of cargo of the naval officer at ports where there is a naval officer; whereupon,

upon arrival at the wharf or place of discharge, the lading or unlading

of the cargo of such vessel may proceed, by both day and night, under
Bond required for such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. immediate lading or SEC. 3. That before any such special license to lade or unlade at unlading.
night shall be granted and before any permit shall be issued for the

immediate lading or unlading of any such vessel after preliminary

entry, as hereinbefore provided, either by day or by night the master, owner, agent, or consignee of sucht vessel or other conveyance shall

make proper application therefor and shall at the same time execute and deliver to the United States, through the collector of customs, a

good and sufficient bond, in a penal sum to be approved by the said

collector, conditioned to indemnify and save the United States

harmless from any and all losses and liabilities which may occur or be

spCeocinatlinluiicnegnsbeosndafnodr occasioned by reason of the granting of such special license or the

permits.

issuing or granting of such permit for immediate lading or unlading;

or the master, owner, agent, consignee, or probable consignee, as aforesaid, may execute and deliver to the United States, in like man-

ner and form, a good and sufficient bond, in the penal sum of fifty

thousand dollars, conditioned to indemnify and save the United

States harmless from any and all losses and liabilities which may

occur or be occasioned by reason of the granting of such special

licenses and the issuing or granting of such permits for immediate

Issue oflicenses and lading or unlading by day and night during a period of six months.

permits.

SEC. 4. Such application having been duly made and the required

bond having been dulyexecuted and delivered, special license or licenses

to lade or unlade at night after regular entry of vessels, and due report

of other conveyances, may be granted, and a permit or permits may be issued for the immediate lading and unlading, by day and night,

Provisos.

of vessels admitted to preliminary entry, or of other conveyances of

inVtersasneslist.with goods which due report of arrival has been made : Provided, That the proR. S. sec. 2776, p. 538. Visions of this Act shall extend and be applicable to any vessels or other conveyances bound to a port of entry in the United States to

Formal quired.

be unladen at a port of delivery or to be unladen at a place of discharge designated by the Secretary of the Treasury under the provisions of section twenty-seven hundred and seventy-six of the Revised Stat-
entry re utes as amended : Provided further, That when preliminary entry of a vessel shall be made by the master as herein provided he shall not be relieved from making due report and entry of his vessel at the customhouse in accordance with existing law, and any liability of the master or owner of any such vessel to the owner or consignee of any merchandise landed from her shall not be affected by the granting of such special license, but such liability shall continue until the merchandise

is properly removed from the dock whereon the same may be landed.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 46, 47. 1911 .

901

SEO. 5. That the Secretary of the Treasury shall fix a reasonable IEnxstpreactpoarys,foetrcn.ight rate of extra compensation for night services of inspectors, store- service.

keepers, weighers, and other customs officers and employees in connection with the lading or unlading of cargo at night, or the lading at

night of cargo or merchandise for transportation in bond or for exportation in bond, or for the exportation with benefit of drawback, but

such rate of compensation shall not exceed an amount equal to double

the rate of compensation allowed to each such officer or employee for

like services rendered by day, the said extra compensation to be paid ttooPrabymmeasnttetro, ectocl.lecby the master, owner, agent, or consignee of such vessel or other con-

veyance, whenever such special license or permit for immediate lading

or unlading or for lading or unlading at night or on Sundays or holidays shall be granted, to the collector of customs, who shall pay the

same to the several customs officers and employees entitled thereto according to the rates fixed therefor by the Secretary of the Treasury. Rates to employees. Customs officers acting as boarding officers, and any customs officer etBc.o,amrdaiyngadmoifnfiscetresr,
who may be designated for that purpose by the collector of customs, oaths. are hereby authorized to administer the oath or affirmation herein provided for, and such boarding officers shall be allowed extra com- icPesayatmneingthtf,oertc.serv

pensation for services in boarding vessels at night or on Sundays

or holidays-at the rate prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury

as herein provided, the said extra compensation to be paid by the

master, owner, agent, or consignee of such vessels.

SEO. 6. That section twenty-eight hundred and seventy-one of the

Laws repealed . R.S. sec. 2871, p. 536,

Revised Statutes , the Act approved June thirtieth, nineteen hundred 2v8o,lp. .3815,. p. 633. Vol. and six, entitled " An Act to amend section twenty-eight hundred and

seventy-one of the Revised Statutes, " and section one of the Act

approved June fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, entitled "An

Act to facilitate the entry of steamships," and all Acts or parts of

Acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed .

Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 47.-An Act To diminish the expense of proceedings on appeal and writ

February 13, 1911. [S. 6386.]

of error or of certiorari.

(Public, No. 351.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States courts.

States of America in Congress assembled, That in any cause or proceed- Appeal, etc., to cir-

ing wherein the final judgment or decree is sought to be reviewed on cuitcourtsof appeals.

appeal to, or by writ of error from, a United States circuit court of

appeals the appellant or plaintiff in error shall cause to be printed rePcroirndtteodbtreafnislcerdi."pt of under such rules as the lower court shall prescribe, and shallfilein the

office of the clerk of such circuit court of appeals at least twentydays

before the case is called for argument therein, at least twenty-five

printed transcripts of the record of the lower court, and of such part

 or abstract of the proofs as the rules of such circuit court of appeals

may require, and in such form as the Supreme Court of the United

States shall by rule prescribe, one of which printed transcripts shall be certified under the hand of the clerk of the lower court and under the

seal thereof, and shall furnish three copies of such printed transcript
to the adverse party at least twenty days before such argument: Proviso. Provided, That either the court below or the circuit court of appeals Original documents. may order any original document or other evidence to be sent up in addition to the printed copies of the record or in lieu of printed copies No written tranof a part thereof; and no written or typewritten transcript of the scriptrequired. record shall be required.
SEC. 2. That in any cause or proceeding wherein the final judgment prppeals, etc.,to Suor decree is sought to be reviewed on appeal to or by writ of error or inUscoeuorftpbrienltoewdarsecpoardt of certiorari from the Supreme Court of the United States, in which of transcript. the record has been printed and used upon the hearing in the court
88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-59 .

902

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 47-49. 1911.

below and which substantially conforms to the printed record in said

Supreme Court, if there have been at the time of filing the record in

the court below twenty-five copies of said printed record, in addition

to those provided in the preceding section, lodged with the clerk of the

court below, one copy thereof shall be used by the clerk of the court

below in the preparation and as a part of the transcript of the record

of the court below; and no fee shall be allowed the clerk of the court

below in the preparation of the transcript for such part thereof as is

coUpsiees of reucnocredr.tified included in said printed record so lodged with him. And the clerk of the court below in transmitting the transcript of record to the

Supreme Court of the United States for review shall at the same time

transmit the remaining uncertified copies of the printed record so

lodged with him, which shall be used in the preparation and as a part

Clerk's fee.

of the printed record in the Supreme Court of the United States, and the clerk's fee for preparing the record for the printer, indexing the

same, supervising the printing and binding and distributing the

copies shall be at such rate per folio thereof, exclusive of the printed record so furnished by the clerk of the court below, as the Supreme

Court of the United States may from time to time by rule prescribe ;

scNriopt worfitptrientetdrarnec-- and no written or typewritten transcript of so much of the record as

ord required.

shall have been printed as herein provided shall be required.

Approved, February 13 , 1911.

February 13, 1911. CHAP. 48.-An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act permitting the building

(S. 6693.]

of a dam across the Mississippi River at or near the village of Sauk Rapids, Benton

[Public, No. 352.] County, Minnesota, " approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and four.

Mississippi River.

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Dam across at Sauk States of America in Congress assembled, That section three of an Act

tapids, Minn.p. 53, entitled " An Act permitting the building of a dam across the Mis-

amended .

sissippi River at or near the village of Sauk Rapids, Benton County,

Post, p. 931.

Minnesota," approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and

four, be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows:

Time extended for construction.

6"6 SEC. 3. That this Act shall be null and void unless the construc-

Vol. 34, p. 1058. tion of the dam herein authorized be commenced on or before the first

day of July, anno Domini nineteen hundred and ten, and completed

within two years from that date. "

Approved, February 13, 1911 .

February 13, 1911. [6. 6842.1

CHAP. 49.--An Act To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw public

notices issued under section four of the reclamation Act, and for other purposes.

[Public, No. 353.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Reclamation act. Withdrawal of pub-

States of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary of the

lic notices of charges, Interior may, in his discretion, withdraw any public notice heretofore

etc., permitted. Vol. 32, p. 339.

issued under section four of the reclamation Act of June seventeenth,

taAryutohfoIrnitteyrioofr.Secre- nineteen hundred and two, and he may agree to such modification of water-right applications heretofore duly filed or contracts with water

users' associations and others, entered into prior to the passage of this Act, as he may deem advisable, or he may consent to the abrogation of

such water-right applications and contracts, and proceed in all respects as if no such notice had been given.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 50-53. 1911:

903

CHAP. 50.-An Act Granting to the town of Wilson Creek, Washington, certain February 13, 1911.

lands for reservoir purposes.

(S. 7138.]

[Public, No. 354.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the PGurbalnitcltaondWsilson

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to issue a patent Creek, Wash.

to the authorities of the town of Wilson Creek, in the State of Wash-

ington, for reservoir purposes, in connection with the water supply for said town, for the following described land, to wit: The northwest Description.

quarter of the northeast quarter of section twelve, township twentytwo north, range twenty-nine east of the Willamette meridian, Grant

County, State of Washington, containing forty acres, more or less, Use for water supsaid patent to contain a provision that said land shall be used for res- ply. ervoir purposes and in connection with the water supply for said town
only; and in case said land shall cease to be used for such purposes it Proviso. shall at once revert to the United States: Provided, That said town Payment.

shall pay two dollars and fifty cents per acre therefor.

Approved, February 13, 1911.

February 18, 1911.

CHAP. 51.-An Act Providing for the restoration and retirement of Frederick W.

[5: 7901.]

Olcott as a passed assistant surgeon in the Navy,

[Public, No. 855.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the FNraevdyerick W. Olcott United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to nominate and, by may be appointed

and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint Frederick W. pgaesosne, dretaisrseids.tant surOlcott, late a passed assistant surgeon in the Navy of the United States, to the rank held by him at the time of his retirement; and

when so appointed he shall be placed on the list of retired officers of the Navy, unlimited, on account of disability incurred in line of duty.

Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 52.-An Act To authorize the construction of a bridge across the Mis-

February 13, 1911. [S. 8592]

souri Riverbetween Lyman County and Brule County, in the State of South Dakota.

[Public, No. 356. ]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Missouri-River. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the White River Valley RaWhiiltweaRyivCeromVaplalneyy Railway Company is hereby authorized to construct and maintain a mbearlyabirnid8.geD, aatk.Chamrailroad bridge, and approaches thereto, across the Missouri River, extending from some convenient and practicable point, suitable to the interests of navigation, on the west bank of said river in the county of Lyman to some convenient and practicable point in or near the city of Chamberlain, in Brule County, in the State of South Dakota, in

accordance with the provisions of an Act entitled "An Act to regulate Vol . 34, p. 84: the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third; nineteen hundred and six.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 53.--An Act Extending the time for certain homesteaders to establish February 13, 1911.

residence upon their lands.

[S. 8916. ]

[Public, No. 357.]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Public lands.

States of America in Congress assembled, That all persons who have Homestead settlers.

heretofore

filed

declaratory

statements

or

made

'homestead

entries

in

Time extended to establish residence by

the States of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Idaho, Montana, certain.

904

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 53-56. 1911.

Ante, p. 189.

Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Minnesota, Washington, and Oregon, and the Territories of Arizona and New Mexico, where the period in which

they were or are required by law to make entry under such declaratory statements or to establish residence expired or expires after December

first, nineteen hundred and ten, are hereby granted until May fifteenth,

Proviso.

nineteen hundred and eleven, within which to make such entry or

Regular period not establish such residence upon the lands so entered bythem: Provided,

shortened.

That this extension of time shall not shorten either the period of com-

mutation or actual residence required by the homestead law: Provided

affAedcvteerds. e claims not further, That this Act shall not affect an adverse claim initiated prior to the passage of the Act and after the expiration of the time allowed

an entryman for establishing residence on the land. Absence permitted. SEC. 2. That homestead entrymen or settlers upon the public domain

in the States and Territories above named be, and the same are hereby,

relieved from the necessity of residence upon their lands fromthe date

Proviso.

of the approval of this Act to May fifteenth, nineteen hundred and

Not deducted from eleven: Provided, That the time of actual absence during the period

full period.

named shall not be deducted from the full time of residence required

by law.

Approved, February 13, 1911 .

February 13, 1911. [S. 9552. ]
[Public, No. 35S.]

CHAP. 54.-An Act To authorize the construction of a bridge across Saint John River, Maine.

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Maine and RCiavnear.da States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the consent of Congress

may bridge, between is hereby given to the construction, maintenance, and operation by the VLeaonnaBrudrse.n and Saint State of Maine and the Dominion of Canada, jointly, of a bridge now

in course of erection across Saint John River between Van Buren,

Vol. 34, p. 84.

Maine, and Saint Leonards, New Brunswick, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nine-

teen hundred and six, said brige to be used only as a common highway Railways excluded. for passengers and common Vehicles, and in no case used for steam,

Amendment.

electric, or other railways. SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby
expressly reserved .

Approved, February 13, 1911.

February 13, 1911. [S. 10221. ]

CHAP. 55. -An Act Authorizing the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to

exchange the site for the immigrant station at the port of Boston.

[Public, No. 359.]

Boston, Mass.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Exchange of immi- States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com-

grant station site. AAdndtiet, ipo.n7a0l2.cost. Post, p. 1441.

merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to exchange the site heretofore acquired for an immigrant station at Boston, Massachusetts, for another suitable site, the additional cost not to exceed thirty

thousand dollars.

Approved, February 13, 1911.

February 13, 1911. [S. 10288.]

CHAP. 56.-An Act Granting to Herman L. Hartenstein the right to construct a

dam across the Saint Joseph River, near Mottville, Saint Joseph County, Michigan.

[Public, No. 360.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

SHaeirnmtaJnosLe.phHaRritveenr-. States of America in Congress assembled, That Herman L. Hartenstein,

sMtoetitnvimllaey. dam, near a citizen of the State of Michigan, his heirs and assigns, be, and they are hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 56-58, 68.1911 .

905

the Saint Joseph River, at a point suitable to the interests of naviga-
tion within one mile up the stream from the highway bridge, at the village of Mottville, Saint Joseph County, in the State of Michigan, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty- Ante, p. 590. third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act
entitled>"An Act to regulate the construction of dam oss navigable waters, approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six.""
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
SEC. 3. That the Act entitled "An Act to authorize Herman L..Formeractrepealed. Vol. 34, p. 1284:
Hartenstein to construct a dam across the Saint Joseph River, near the
village of Mottville, Saint Joseph County, Michigan," approved. March second, nineteen hundred and seven, is hereby repealed.
Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 57.--An Act Extending the provisions of the Act approved March tenth, February 13, 1911.

nineteen hundred and eight, entitled "An Act to authorize A. J. Smith and his

[S. 10324.]

associates to erect a dam across the Choctawhatchee River in Dale County, Alabama." (Public, No. 361.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the time for completing RiCvhero.ctawhatehee the construction of the dam authorized by the Act entitled "An Act Time extended for to authorize A. J. Smith and his associates to erect a dam across the dSmaimtmhientga,l.by A. J.
Choctawhatchee River, in Dale County, Alabama," approved March amVeonld.ed8. 5 , p . 40, tenth, nineteen hundred and eight, is hereby extended to one year
from and after the passage of this Act.. SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby , Amendment.
expressly reserved.
Approved, February 13, 1911. ·

CHAP. 58.--An Act For the relief of Edward Forbes Greene..

February 13, 1911. [8. 3494.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Public, No. 362 ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and Navy. he is hereby, authorized to nominate and, by and with the advice and GrEedenwearmdayFboerbaeps-
consent of the Senate, to appoint Edward Forbes Greene, late lieuten- rpeotiinrteedd. lieutenant, ant, a lieutenant in the United States Navy, and to place him upon

the retired list as such with three- fourths the pay of his grade: Provided, That the said Edward Forbes Greene shall not, by the passage of this Act, be entitled to back pay of any kind, including bounty or emoluments.

PNroovbiascok pay, etc.

( Approved, February 13, 1911.

CHAP. 68.- An ActTo authorize S. G. Guerrier, ofAtchison, Kansas, to construct February 15, 1911.

a bridge across the Missouri River near the city of Atchison, Kansas.

[S. 10591.]

[Public, No. 363.] Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That S. G. Guerrier, of SM.isGs.ouGruieRririveerr.may Atchison, State of Kansas, and his assigns, are hereby authorized to bridge, at Atchison,
construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto Kans

across the Missouri River, at a point suitable to the interests of navi-

gation, at or near the city of Atchison, in the county of Atchison, in

the State of Kansas, in accordance with the provisions of the Act Vol. 34, p. 84.

entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable

waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

906

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 69-71. 1911 .

February 15, 1911. [H. R. 23361.]
(Public, No. 364.]

CHAP. 69.- An Act Authorizing. the Hot Springs Lodge, Numbered Sixty-two,
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arkansas, to occupy and construct buildings for the use of the organization on lots numbered one and two, in block numbered one hundred and fourteen, in the city of Hot Springs, Arkansas.

" Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Hot Springs, Ark. Hot Springs Lodge

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

exclusive

right

to

tofwoMalsotosnisnm. ayoccupy use, occupy, and enjoy the possession of all of lots numbered one and

two, in block numbered one hundred and fourteen, in the city of Hot

Springs, Arkansas, is by this Act granted to the Hot Springs Lodge,

Numbered Sixty-two, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, under the

jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arkansas, for the purpose of erect-

Conditions.

ing and maintaining thereon a suitable and sightly building for the use of the said Hot Springs Lodge. The rights and privileges granted under this Act shall continue as long as the property is used and occu-

Forfeiture.

pied for the purposes mentioned in this Act, subject, however, to the following conditions and limitations, namely: That unless said Hot

Springs Lodge shall, within five years after the passage of this Act,

erect and equip a suitable and sightly building for the purposes above mentioned, or if said Hot Springs Lodge shall at any time hereafter

use, or permit the premises to be used, for any other purpose than that

herein granted, then, and in either event, all the rights, privileges, and

powers by this Act granted and conferred upon said Hot Springs

Lodge shall be forfeited to the United States.

Lease of hot water

authorized.

SEO. 2. That upon compliance with the conditions and require-

ments of section one of this Act by said Hot Springs Lodge the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, is hereby authorized to lease to said Hot Springs Lodge a sufficient quantity of hot water to accommodate said Lodge for all drinking purposes and to supply not more than five bath tubs, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe;

and all improvements made upon said property shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."

Approved, February 15, 1911 .

February 15, 1911. CHAP. 70.-An Act To extend the time for commencing and completing bridges [H. R. 29715.) and approaches thereto across the Waccamaw River, South Carolina .
[Public No. 365.]
Waccamaw River. Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Time extended for States of America in Congress assembled, That the time for commenc-

barniddgCionngw, aatyS, tSa.rCB.luff ing and completing the bridges and approaches thereto across the

Ante, p. 179.

Waccamaw River by the Building Commission of Horry County,

South Carolina, its successors and assigns, one at or near Star Bluff

and the other at or near Conway, in the State of South Carolina, as

authorized by the Act entitled "An Act to authorize the construction,

maintenance, and operation of various bridges across and over certain

Amendment.

navigable waters, and for other purposes," approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, is hereby extended one year and three years, respectively, from the date of the approval of this Act.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

AFebruary 15, 1911. [H. R. 30149.]

CHAP. 71. An Act To transfer the military reservation known as Fort Trum-

bull, situated at New London, Connecticut, from the War Department to the Treasury

[Public, No. 366.] Department, for the use of the Revenue-Cutter Service.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United CoFnonrt. Trumbull, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

ferRreesdervtaotioRnevternaunes- be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to transfer the military

Cutter Service.

reservation known as Fort Trumbull, situated at New London, in the

State of Connecticut, to the Treasury Department, for the use of the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. CH8. 71-74. 1911.

907

Revenue-Cutter Service: Provided, That the continued use bythe War PUrsoeviosfo. irharf conDepartment, concurrent with the Treasury Department, of the present tinued. dock and approaches thereto be reserved to the War Department in order that harbor boats stationed in the artillery district of New London may tie up there when necessary.
Approved, February 15, 1911.

CHAP. 72.-An Act To authorize the Fargo and Moorhead Street Railway Com-

February 15, 1911. [H. R. 30793.]

pany to construct a bridge across the Red River ofthe North.

(Public, No. 367.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Fargo and Moor- Red River of the

head Street Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws heFaadrgSotreaentdRaMiolowrayof North Dakota, its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized to Companymaybridge, construct, maintain, and operatea bridge and approaches thereto across Fargo, N. Dak.

the Red River of the North at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or near the city of Fargo, in the county of Cass, in the State-

of North Dakota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitle"d" "An Act toregulatethe construction of bridges over navigable waters,'
approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby · expressly reserved.

Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

CHAP. 73.-An Act To authorize the Chicago Great Western Railroad Com-. Fe[bHr.uaRr.y310689, 01.9]11.

pany, a corporation, to construct a bridge across the Mississippi River at Saint Paul,

Minnesota.

[Public, No. 363.]

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Mississippi River States of America in Congress assembled, That the Chicago Great Chicago Great WestWestern Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws pearnnyRamialryoabdriCdogme-, of Illinois, its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized to con- Saint Paul, Minn. struct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto, across .
the Mississippi River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or in Saint Paul, in the county of Ramsey, in the State of Minne-. sota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Vol.34, p. 84. Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby .Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, February 15, 1911.

CHAP. 74.-An Act To authorize the Great Western Land Company, of Mis- Fe[bHr.uaRr.y210859,91.9]11 souri, to construct a bridge across Black River.
[Public, No. 369.] Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Great Western Land BGrleaactkWReisvteer.rn Land Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Mis- CPoopmlpaarnBylumffa,yMbor.idge, souri, its successors and assigns be, and they are hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Black River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation at or near and below the town of Poplar Bluff, in Butler County, in the State of Missouri, in accordance with the provisions of the Act Vol. 34, p. 84. entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, February 15, 1911.

908

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 75-77. 1911.

February 15, 1911. [H. R. 31171.]
[Public, No. 370.]

CHAP. 75. -An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act to authorize the con-
struction of a bridge across the Monongahela River, in the State of Pennsylvania, ' by the Liberty Bridge Company," approved March second, nineteen hundred and seven.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

MToinmoengeaxhteelnadeRdivfeorr. States of America in Congress assembled, That section two of an Act

bridging, by Liberty entitled " An Act to authorize the construction of a bridge across the

BPrititdsgbeurCg.ompany, at Monongahela River, in the State of Pennsylvania, by the Liberty Vol. 34, p. 1235, Bridge Company," approved March second, nineteen hundred and

Vol. 35, pp. 45, 638. seven, as amended by the Acts approved March sixteenth, nineteen

Ante,.p. 269.

hundred and eight, February eighteenth, nineteen hundred and nine,

and April second, nineteen hundred and fen, be, and is hereby, further

amended to read as follows:

Time of construction.

"SEO. 2. That this Act shall be null and void if actual construction

of the bridge herein authorized be not commenced within one year

and completed within three years from March fifteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven. "

Approved, February 15, 1911.

February 15, 1911. [H. R. 31648.]

CHAP. 76.--An Act To authorize the county of Hamilton, in the State of Ten-

nessee, to construct a bridge across the Tennessee River at Chattanooga, Tennessee.

(Public, No. 371.]

Tennessee River.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and louse of Representatives ofthe United

Hamilton County States of America in Congress assembled, That the county of Hamilton,

mnoaoygab, rTiedngne,..Chatta- in the State of Tennessee, be, and is hereby, authorized to construct,

maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto, across the

Location.

Tennessee River, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation,

between a point four hundred feet north of West Sixth Street on the

north, and Nineteenth Street (formerly Henry Street) on the south, in

Vol. 34, p. 84

the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, to the opposite bank of said Tennessee River, in said county of Hamilton, in the State of Tennessee,

in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regu-

late the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved

Amendment.

March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six. SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby
expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

February 15, 1911. CHAP. 77.--An Act To authorize the county of Hamilton, in the State of Ten[H. R. 31649.] nessee, to construct a bridge across the Tennessee River at Chattanooga, Tennessee.

[Public, No. 372. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Tennessee River. Hamilton County

States of America in

Congress assembled, That the county of

Hamilton,

mnoaoygab, rTiedngne., Chatta- in the State of Tennessee, be, and is hereby, authorized to construct,

maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Ten-

To Hill City.

nessee River, at some point on said Tennessee River suitable to the

Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

interests of navigation, above or below the present bridge from Walnut Street, in the city of Chattanooga, to Hill City, in the State of Tennessee, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . Cas. 78, 79. 1911.

909

CHAP. 78.- An Act Extending the time for commencing and completing the .bridge authorized by an Act approved April twenty-third, nineteen hundred andsix, entitled "An Act to authorize the Fayette Bridge Company to construct a bridge over the Monongahela River, Pennsylvania, from a point in the borough of Browns-
ville, Fayette County, to a point in the borough of West Brownsville, Washington County."

February 15, 1911. [H.R.31656. ]
[Public, No.873.]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled,

That the time for commencing

Monongahela River. Time extended for

and completing the bridge authorized by the Act entitled " An Act to bBrriiddggiengC,obmypFaanyye,ttaet authorize the Fayette Bridge Company to construct a bridge over the Brownsville, Pa.

Monongahela River, Pennsylvania, from a point in the borough of VAnotle.,34p,.p8.7102.8.

Brownsville, FayetteCounty, to apointin the boroughof WestBrowns-

ville, Washington County," approved April twenty-third, nineteen

hundred and six, is hereby extended one and three years, respectively, from the twenty-fifth day of June, nineteen hundred and eleven.

SEO. 2. That the bridge authorized to be constructed by said Act Construction. shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions of the Act Vol. 34 , p . 84 . entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over naviga-

ble waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

SEC. 3. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

CHAP. 79.-An Act To authorize the Chucawalla Development Company to
build a dam across the Colorado River at or near the mouth of Pyramid Canyon,
Arizona; also a diversion intake dam at or near Black Point, Arizona, and Blythe, California.

February 16, 1911. [H.R. 31859. ]
[Public, No.374.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Chucawalla Devel- CohluocraawdaolRliaveDre.velopment Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State ompamyednatm, aCtommouptahnoyf of California, its successors and assigns, be, and they are hereby, Pyramid Canyon. authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across the Colorado River at the mouth of Pyramid Canyon, known as "Bulls Head damsite," about twenty-two miles north of Fort Mohave,
Mohave County, Arizona, and a portion of said site being located in Lincoln County, Nevada; also a diversion intake dam, ten feet high, daDimveartsiBolnaciknPtoaiknte, to be located at or near Black Point, about twenty miles north and Ariz. upstream from the town of Ehrenburg, Yuma County, Arizona, and
about twenty miles north and above the town of Blythe, Riverside County, California, in accordance with the provisions of the Act CVoonls.t3r4u,cpt.i38o6n.. approved June. twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled
"An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six : Provided, That the actual construction PTriomviesofsor construc of said dams shall be begun within two years and completed within tion.
ffuirvtehyeer,arTshaftrotmhethaectduaaltecoonfsttrhuectpiaosnsoafgesaoifd tdhaims sAcshta:llAnnodt pbreovciodme-d Secretary of Inte rior toapprove plans,
menced until the plans and specifications therefor shall have been etc. presented to and approved by the Secretary of the Interior in addi-
tion to the requirements of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled
'An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first nineteen hundred and six," and in
approving the plans and specifications, the Secretary of the Interior Indian rights, etc.
may impose such conditions as to him shall seem proper for the protection of the public interests of Indians and the United States.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, February 15, 1911.

910

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. Cs. 80, 81, 86. 1911 .

February 15, 1911. CHAP. 80.-An Act Authorizing the town of Blackberry to construct a bridge (H. R. 31927.] across the Mississippi River in Itasca County, Minnesota.
[Public, No. 375.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Mississippi River.

Blackberry, Minn., States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of Congress

may bridge.

is hereby granted to the town of Blackberry, a municipal corporation

Location.

organized and existing under and pursuant to the laws of the State of Minnesota, to build a public highway bridge across the Mississippi

· River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation from a point on the northerly bank of said river in lot six, section eight, township

fifty-four, range twenty-four west, fourth principal meridian, to a point on the southerly bank of said river in lot nine of said section,

Vol. 34, p. 84.

all in the county of Itasca, State of Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction

Amendment.

of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

February 15, 1911. [H. R. 32004.]

CHAP. 81.-An Act Providing for the quadrennial electior. of members of the

Philippine Assembly and Resident Commissioners to the United States, and for

[Public, No. 376.] other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PMheimlbiepprisneofIsAlsasnedms-. States of America in Congress assembled, That the present members of

bfoluyrtyoeabres.elected for the Philippine Assembly shall hold office until the sixteenth day of

Vol. 32, p. 693. October, anno Domini nineteen hundred and twelve, and their succes-

Vol. 35, p. 659. Ante, p. 167.

sors shall be chosen by the people in the year nineteen hundred and

twelve, and in every fourth year thereafter, and shall hold office for

four years beginning on the sixteenth day of October next following legRiesgluatluarre.sessions of their election. At its next regular session after the passage of this

Act the Philippine Legislature shall fix the date for the commence-

ment of its annual sessions.

Resident Commis-

sloners.

SEC. 2. That the present Resident Commissioners shall hold office

Tenure ofpresent. until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.

Their successors may be elected by the present Philippine Legisla-

yeTaersramftetro19b1e2. four ture, and if so elected shall hold office until March fourth, nineteen

Vol. 32, p. 694. Ante, p. 467.

hundred and thirteen. At the regular session beginning in nineteen

hundred and twelve, and quadrennially thereafter, the Philippine

Legislature shall in the manner now provided by law elect two Resident Commissioners to the United States, each of whom shall hold

Salary, expenses, office for the term of four years beginning upon the fourth day of

etc.

March next ensuing his election. Each of said Resident Commission-

ers shall, in addition to the salary and expenses now allowed by law, be allowed the same sum for- stationery and for the pay of necessary

clerk hire as is now allowed to the Members of the House of Representatives of the United States, and the franking privilege now enjoyed

by Members of the House of Representatives.

Inconsistent laws SEO. 3. That all Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent herewith are

repealed.

hereby repealed so far, and so far only, as they conflict with the pro-

visions of this Act.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

February 16, 1911. (s. 1028.]
[Public, No. 377.]
Army.

CHAP. 86.-An Act To appoint Warren C. Beach a captain in the army and place him on the retired list.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and he is hereby, authorized , by and with the advice and consent of the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 86-88. 1911.

911

Senate, to appoint Warren C.

Beach, late captain,

Eleventh Infantry,

Warren C. Beach maybeappointed cap-

United States Army, to be a captain of infantry in the Army of the ttiariend .of Infantry, reUnited States and to place him on the retired list of the army with

the rank of captain : Provided, That the said Warren C. Beach shall

Proviso. Entitled to no pay,

not, by virtue of such restoration to the army, be entitled to back, etc.

present, or future pay or allowances of any kind whatsoever.

Approved, February 16, 1911.

CHAP. 87.--An Act To authorize the employment of letter carriers at certain February 16, 1911.

post-offices.

(H. R. 23314.]

[Public, No. 378.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Postal service. States of America in Congress assembled, That hereafter when two or Letter carriers al-
more post-offices situated within the corporate limits of any city, vil- ltioowneodfpboystcooffniscoelsida lage, or borough are consolidated by authority of the Postmaster- Vol. 24, p. 355.

General, and the said offices together produced a gross revenue for the preceding fiscal year of not less than ten thousand dollars, letter car-

riers may be employed for the free delivery of mail matter in like

manner as if any one of such post-offices had produced such revenue in said fiscal year.

Approved, February 16, 1911.

CHAP. 88.-An Act Providing for the levy of taxes by the taxing officers of the February 16, 1911.-

Territory of Arizona, and for other purposes.

[H. R. 28214.]

[Public, No. 379.)

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Arizona. States of America in Congress assembled, That the proper taxing Levy of Territorial

officers of the Territory of Arizona shall levy and cause to be levied itzaexde.s for 1912 authorsuch taxes for the maintenance of the Territorial government for the

year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, as may be

authorized and directed to be levied for such purpose by the Terri-

torial board of control by an order duly made and entered in its min-

utes, and which said order shall be so made and entered on or before Proviso. the second Monday in August, nineteen hundred and eleven: Pro- Maximum rate.

vided, That the total tax rate for Territorial purposes so levied shali not exceed that fixed by the Territorial board of equalization for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven.

SEC. 2. That the said board of control is hereby authorized and diEtsurteismaftoerof19e1x2peanudirected to make and enter upon its minutes on or before the second thorized. Monday in August, nineteen hundred and eleven, an estimate of the sums which may be needed for the maintenance of each of the Territorial institutions for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hun-

dred and twelve, including such improvements to the property and additions to the equipment thereof as said board may deem necessary and proper to be made, and said estimate so made and entered shall

be full and ample authority for the expenditure of any of the sums Provisos. included therein for the purpose specified therein: Provided, That in Reversionofamount
case said board may determine at any time thereafter during said not needed. year that any sum apportioned in said estimate to any institution for the maintenance thereof, or for making improvements or adding
to the equipment thereof, shall be in excess of what may be needed

for any such purpose, said board of control may order and cause such excess sum to revert to the Territorial general fund: And pro- Supplying deficien-

videdfurther, That said board of control may at any time during said cies. year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, in case its estimate for the maintenance of any of the Territorial institutions
forsaid year be found by it to be insufficient for that purpose, authorize such deficiency to be paid from said Territorial general fund.

912

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS: SESS. III. CHS. 88, 89. 1911.

Appropriations by legislative assembly

SEC. 3. That the various appropriations made and authorized to

tfoernd1e9d10toan19d121.911, ex- be paid for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and eleven, as provided in subdivisions one to seventeen, inclusive,

and in subdivisions twenty-three, twenty-seven, and twenty-nine of

section one of the act of the legislative assembly of the Territory of

Arizona, entitled "An act making appropriations for the current and

contingent expenses of the civil government of the Territory of

Arizona for the two fiscal years ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, and June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, and other purposes," approved March eighteenth, nineteen hundred

and nine, are hereby authorized and directed to be paid to the officers named therein for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and that subdivision thirty-one of section one and section two of said act shall remain in full force for

and during said fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred 191E2xpneontdaiftfeucrteesd. for and twelve. Nothing herein shall be construed as affecting the
provisions of any enactment of said legislative assembly authorizing the expenditure of money for any purpose from the Territorial treas ury during said fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and twelve, but the same shall remain in full force and effect, this

Act notwithstanding.

Act of assembly for roads, etc., continued

SEO. 4. That the provisions of the act of the legislative assembly

for 1912.

of the Territory of Arizona entitled " An act relating to the construc-

tion, maintenance, and improvement of Territorial roads and creating

the office of Territorial engineer," approved March eighteenth,

nineteen hundred and nine, be continued in full force and effect for

said year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

Amendment ofTerritorial law.

SEO; 5. That wherever in section three of chapter forty-three of

the session laws of the twenty-fourth legislative assembly of the

Territory of Arizona, nineteen hundred and seven, the word " twelve"

appears, the same is hereby amended so as to read " fourteen, " and

as so amended the said section is continued in full force and effect.

Legislative act SEO. 6. That section ten of chapter twenty-five of the acts of the amended.
twenty-third legislative assembly of the Territory of Arizona, nine-

teen hundred and-five, be amended so as to read as follows:

Antelopes. Hunting, etc., 8

"SEO. 10. Every person who, in the Territory of Arizona, shall

misdemeanor.

hunt, pursue, take, shoot, kill, destroy, wound, or capture, or have

in his possession, any antelope at any time hereafter and prior to

March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. "

Approved, February 16 , 1911 .

February 16, 1911. CHAP. 89.--An Act To authorize the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to trans[H. R. 31661.] fer the lighthouse tender Wistaria to the Secretary of the Treasury.
[Public, No. 380.]
Be it enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United housWiestteanrdiea,r". light States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of ComlicTrHanesafletrhreadntdo PMuab-- merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to transfer to the
rine-Hospital Service. Secretary of the Treasury, for the use of the Public Health and MarineHospital Service, the lighthouse tender Wistaria, which vessel is no
longer needed in connection with the work of the Lighthouse Service.
Approved, February 16, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 90, 91, 103. 1911.

· 913

CHAP. 90.-An Act Extendingthe provisions ofsection four ofthe Act of August Fe[bHr.uaRr.y231862,71.9]1.1. eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and Acta amendatory thereto, to the

Fort Bridger abandoned military reservation in Wyoming.

[Public, No. 3891.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the provisions of section taFroyrRtesBreirdgveartiMiolni-, four of the Act of August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety- WareyActapplicable
four, and Acts amendatory thereto, be, and the same are hereby, made to lands of. applicable to the lands in the former Fort Bridger Military Reserva- Vol. 28, p. 122. tion in Uinta County, Wyoming.
Approved, February 16, 1911.

February 16, 1911. CHAP. 91.-An Act Authorizing homestead entries on certain lands formerly a [H.R. $2222.] part of the Red Lake Indian Reservation. in the State of Minnesota.
[Public, No. 382.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That hereafter all lands ceded PHuobmleisctleaandds.entries under the Act entitled "An Act to authorize the sale ofwhat is known IonndicaendedResReerdvatLiaokne, as the Red Lake Indian Reservation, in Minnesota," approved February Minn. twentieth, nineteen hundred and four, and undisposed of, shall be Vol. 33, p. 46. subject to homestead entry at the price of, four dollars per acre, pay-
able as provided in section three of said Act, for all lands not heretofore entered; and for all lands embraced in canceled entries the price shall be the same as that at which they were originally entered : Provided, PPrreofviesroesn. cerights to That where such entries have been or shall hereafter be canceled contestants:
pursuant to contests, the contestant shall have a preference right to Vol. 27, p. 270. enter the land embraced in such canceled entry, as prescribed in the
Act of July twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two: Provided Drainage charges. further, That all lands entered under this Act shall, in addition to the Vol. 85, p. 169.
payments herein provided for, be subject to drainage charges, if any, authorized under the Act entitled "An Act to authorize the drainage
of certain lands in the State of Minnesota," approved May twentieth,
nineteen hundred and eight. (Twenty-seventh Statutes, page two hundred and seventy.)
Approved, February 16, 1911.

CHAP. 103.--An Act To promote the safety of employees and travelers upon rail- February 17, 1911.

roads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip their

S. 6702.1

locomotives with safe and suitable boilers and appurtenances thereto.

[Public, No. 383.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the provisions of this LCoocommmotoinve cbaorlrlieerrss. Act shall apply to any common carrier or carriers, their officers, affectedby act. agents, and employees, engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad in the District of Columbia, or in any Territory of the United States, or from one State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia to any other State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or from any place in the United States to an adjacent foreign country, or from any
place in the United States through a foreign country to any other place in the United States. The term " railroad " as used in this Act "MeRaainlirnogadosf." terms. shall include all the roads in use by any common carrier operating
a railroad, whether owned or operated under a contract, agreement, or lease, and the term " employees" as used inthis Act shall be held to " Employecs." mean persons actually engaged in or connected with the movement of any train.
SEO. 2. That from and after the first day of July, nineteen hundred LUosceo,umnolteisvsewsi, thsafe and eleven, it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, its officers or bollers, unlawful. agents, subject to this Act to use any locomotive engine propelled by

914

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 103. 1911. ·

steam power in moving interstate or foreign traffic unless the boiler

of said locomotive and appurtenances thereof are in proper condition
" and safe to operate in the service to which the same is put, that the

same may be employed in the active service of such carrier in moving

Inspection.

traffic without unnecessary peril to life or limb, and all boilers shall be inspected from time to time in accordance with the provisions of

this Act, and be able to withstand such test or tests as may be pre-

scribed in the rules and regulations hereinafter provided for.

Chiefand twoassistant chief inspectors.

SEO. 3. That there shall be appointed by the President, by and with

APpopsto,ipn.t1m3e97n.t,etc. the advice and consent of the Senate, a chief inspector and two assistant chief inspectors of locomotive boilers, who shall have general

superintendence of the inspectors hereinafter provided for, direct

Selection.

them in the duties hereby imposed upon them, and see that the requirements of this Act and the rules, regulations, and instructions made or given hereunder. are observed by common carriers subject hereto. The said chief inspector and his two assistants shall be selected with

Salaries, etc.

reference to their practical knowledge of the construction and repairing of boilers, and to their fitness and ability to systematize and carry into effect the provisions hereof relating to the inspection and maintenance of locomotive boilers. The chief inspector shall receive a

salary of four thousand dollars per year and the assistant chief inspectors shall each receive a salary of three thousand dollars per

Office, etc.

year; and each of the three shall be paid his traveling expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. The office of the chief

inspector shall be in Washington, District of Columbia, and the
Interstate Commerce Commission shall provide such stenographic and
clerical help as the business of the offices of the chief inspector and his said assistants. may require. Inspection districts.
SEO. 4. That immediately after his appointment and qualification

the chief inspector shall divide the territory comprising the several

States, the Territories of New Mexico and Arizona, and the District

of Columbia into fifty locomotive boiler-inspection districts, so

arranged that the service of the inspector appointed for each district

shall be most effective, and so that the work required of each inspector District inspectors. shall be substantially the same. Thereupon there shall be appointed

serIvnicec.lassified Salaries, etc.

civil by the Interstate Commerce Commission fifty inspectors of locomotive boilers. Said inspectors shall be in the classified service and shall be appointed after competitive examination according to the law and the rules of the Civil Service Commission governing the classified service. The chief inspector shall assign one inspector so appointed to each of the districts hereinbefore named. Each

inspector shall receive a salary of one thousand eight hundred dollars per year and his traveling expenses while engaged in the performance of his duty. He shall receive in addition thereto an annual allowance for office rent, stationery, and clerical assistance, to be fixed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, but not to exceed in the case of any district inspector six hundred dollars per pliEcxaanmtis.nationsof ap- year. In order to obtain the most competent inspectors possible, it shall be the duty of the chief inspector to prepare a list of questions to be propounded to applicants with respect to construction, repair, operation, testing, and "inspection of locomotive boilers, and their

Disqualifications.

practical experience in such work, which list, being approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, shall be used by the Civil Service Commission as a part of its examination. No person interested,

either directly or indirectly, in any patented article required to be
used on any locomotive under supervision or who is intemperate in.
his habits shall be eligible to hold the office of either chief inspector or assistant or district inspector. rieIrnss.pection by car- SEO. 5. That each carrier subject to this Act shall file its rules and instructions for the inspection of locomotive boilers with the chief

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Ca. 103. 1911,

915 .

inspector within three months after the approval of this Act, and after ruAlepspfriolveda.l, etc., of

hearing and approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission, such

rules and instructions, with such modifications as the commission

requires, shall become obligatory upon such carrier: Provided, however,

Provisos. Rulesto beobserved

That if any carrier subject to this Act shall fail to file its rules and if carrier fails to fille

instructions the chief inspector shall prepare rules and instructions any. not inconsistent herewith for the inspection of locomotive boilers, to

be observed by such carrier ; which rules and instructions, being

approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and a copy thereof being served upon the president, general manager, or general

superintendent of such carrier, shall be obligatory, and a violation

thereof punished as hereinafter provided: Provided also, That such changes.

common carrier may from time to time change the rules and regula-

lations herein provided for, but such change shall not take effect and

the new rules and regulations be in force until the same shall have

been filed with and approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The chief inspector shall also make all needful rules, regulations, and instructions not inconsistent herewith for the conduct of his office

Office rules, etc.

and for the government of the district inspectors : Provided, however, That all such rules and instructions shall be approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission before they take effect.
SEO. 6. That it shall be the duty of each inspector to become familiar, so far as practicable, with the condition of each locomotive

proval of all District inspection.

boiler ordinarily housed or repaired in his district, and if any locomotive is ordinarily housed or repaired in two or more districts, then the chief inspector or an assistant shall make such division between inspectors as will avoid the necessity for duplication of work. Each ofPbeorilseornsa.l inspection inspector shall make such personal inspection of the locomotive boilers under his care from time to time as may be necessary to fully

carry out the provisions of this Act, and as may be consistent with

his other duties , but he shall not be required to make such inspections

at stated times or at regular intervals.

His

first

duty

shall

be

to

see Inspection riers.

by

car-

that the carriers make inspections in accordance with the rules and

regulations established or approved by the Interstate Commerce

Commission, and that carriers repair the defects which such inspec-

tions disclose before the boiler or boilers or appurtenances pertaining thereto are again put in service. To this end each carrier subject to filSewd.orn reports tobe

this Act shall file with the inspector in charge, under the oath of the

proper officer or employee, a duplicate of the report of each inspection required by such rules and regulations, and shall also file with such

inspector, under the oath of the proper officer or employee, a report Repairing defects.

showing the repair of the defects disclosed by the inspection. The

rules and regulations hereinbefore provided for shall prescribe the

time at which such reports shall be made. Whenever any district boiNloetrisc, eetoc.f defective

inspector shall, in the performance of his duty, find any locomotive

boiler or apparatus pertaining thereto not conforming to the require

ments of the law or the rules and regulations established and approved

as hereinbefore stated, he shall notify the carrier in writing that the

locomotive is not in serviceable condition, and thereafter such boiler

shall not be used until in serviceable condition: Provided, That a car-

Proviso. Appeals to chief in-

rier, when notified by an inspector in writing that a locomotive boiler spectar bycarrier.

is not in serviceable condition, because of defects set out and de

scribed in said notice, may within five days after receiving said notice, appeal to the chief inspector by telegraph or by letter to have said boiler reexamined, and upon receipt of the appeal from the inspector's decision, the chief inspector shall assign one of the assistant chief inspectors or any district inspector other than the one from whose decision the appeal is taken to reexamine and inspect said. boiler within fifteen days from date of notice. If upon such reexamination the boiler is found in serviceable condition, the chief inspector shall immediately notify the carrier in writing, whereupon such boiler may

Reexamination. Effect.

916

SIXTY- FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III: CH. 103. 1911.

be put into service without further delay; but if the reexamination of said boiler sustains the decision of the district inspector, the chief

inspector shall at once notify the carrier owning or operating such locomotive that the appeal from the decision of the inspector is disAppeals to Inter- missed, and upon the receipt of such notice the carrier may, within

smtiastseioCno.mmerce Com- thirty days, appeal to the Interstate Commerce Commission, and

Final action. ' upon such appeal, and after hearing, said Commission shall have

power to revise, modify, or set aside such action of the chief inspector Inspector's require- and declare that said locomotive is in serviceable condition and

miengntasppeefaflecst. ive pend- authorize the same to be operated : Provided further, That pending

either appeal the requirements of the inspector shall be effective.

Annual report of

chief inspector.

SEC. 7. That the chief inspector shall make an annual report to the

Interstate Commerce Commission of the work done during the year,

and shall make such recommendations for the betterment of the

service as he may, desire.

Accidents from fail-

ure of boilers.

SEC. 8. That in the case of accident resulting from failure from any

cause of a locomotive boiler or its appurtenances, resulting in serious

injury or death to one or more persons, a statement forthwith must

Investigation.

be made in writing of the fact of such accident, by the carrier owning or operating said locomotive, to the chief inspector. Whereupon the

facts concerning such accident shall be investigated by the chief

inspector or one of his assistants, or such inspector as the chief

Disabled parts to

be preserved.

inspector may designate for that purpose. And where the locomotive

is disabled to the extent that it can not be run by its own steam, the

part or parts affected by the said accident shall be preserved by said

Detailed reports. carrier intact, so far as possible, without hindrance or interference to traffic until after said inspection. The chief inspector oran assistant

or the designated inspector making the investigation shall examine

or cause to be examined thoroughly the boiler or part affected, making

full and detailed report of the cause of the accident to the chief

inspector.

Reports by Interstate Commerce Com-

The Interstate Commerce Commission may at any time call upon

mission of cause, etc. the chief inspector for a report of any accident embraced in this sec-

tion, and upon the receipt of said report, if it deems it to the public

interest, make reports of such investigations, stating the cause of accident, together with such recommendations as it deems proper.

Such reports shall be made public in such manner as the commission

adRmeiptotretds,inetdc.a,mangoet deems proper. Neither said report nor any report of said investiga-

guits.

tion nor any part thereof shall be admitted as evidence or used for

any purpose in any suit or action for damages growing out of any

matter mentioned in said report or investigation.

Penalty for viola-

tions by carriers.

SEC. 9. That any common carrier violating this Act or any rule or

regulation made under its provisions or any lawful order of any inspector shall be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars for each

and every such violation , to be recovered in a suit or suits to be brought

by the United States attorney in the district court of the United States

having jurisdiction in the locality where such violation shall have been

toDrnuetyystoofbdriistnrgiscutiatst. committed ; and it shall be the duty of such attorneys, subject to the direction of the Attorney-General, to bring such suits upon duly

verified information being lodged with them, respectively, of such Information chiefinspector. from violations having occurred; andit shall be the duty of the chief inspec-
tor of locomotive boilers to give information to the proper United

Limit of appropria- States attorney of all violations of this Act coming to his knowledge.

tions.

SEC. 10. That the total amounts directly appropriated to carry

out the provisions of this Act shall not exceed for any one fiscal year the sum of three hundred thousand dollars.

Approved, February 17, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 104, 105, 111. 1191 .

917

CHAP. 104.-An Act To convey to the city of Fort Smith, Arkansas, aportion of

February 17, 1911. [8. 10348.]

the national cemetery reservation in said city.

[Public, No. 884.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Fort SmithNational States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Cemetery Reserve, be, and hereby is, authorized and directed, upon the payment by the ArSaklee of portion to city of Fort Smith, State of Arkansas, amunicipal corporation, of such Fort Smith. sum as he may determine to be the reasonable value of the premises, to convey to said city the following-described portion of the National

Cemetery Reserve in the city of Fort Smith, State of Arkansas, to wit: Beginning at a stone which is set approximately at the center of South Description. Sixth Street and at the extreme northeast corner of the National

Cemetery Reserve in the city of Fort Smith, State of Arkansas, for a point of beginning; thence in a westerly direction and along the line of said reserve one hundred and fifty-seven and two-tenths feet to a

point; thence in a southeasterly direction two hundred and seven and six-tenths feet, more or less, to a point in the east line of said cemetery reserve and in the west line of South Sixth Street ; thence in a

northerly direction and along the line of said cemetery reserve for a distance of one hundred and forty-five and five-tenths feet to the point of beginning.
SEC. 2. That this Act shall take effect and be in force from and after

In effect.

its passage and approval.

Approved, February 17, 1911.

CHAP. 105.--An Act Providing for the purchase or erection, within certain

February 17, 1911. [H. R. 30888.]

limits of cost, of embassy, legation, and consular buildings abroad.

[Public, No. 335.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of State suDliaprlsoemravitciec. andcon-
be, and he is hereby, authorized to acquire in foreign countries such Buildingsin foreign sites and buildings as may be appropriated for by Congress for the fCooru.ntries authorized

use of the diplomatic and consular establishments of the United States,

and to alter, repair, and furnish the said buildings; suitable buildings

for this purpose to be either purchased or erected, as to the Secretary

of State may seem best, and all buildings so acquired for the diplomatic

service shall be used both as the residences of diplomatic officials and

for the offices of the diplomatic establishment: Provided, however, PLriomciitsaotsion. That not more than the sum of five hundred thousand dollars shall be expended in any fiscal year under the authorization herein made: And

providedfurther, That in submitting estimates of appropriation to the toDbeetsaiulbemditteesdt.imates Secretary of the Treasury for transmission to the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State shall set forth a limit of cost for the
acquisition of sites and buildings and for the construction, alteration, repair, and furnishing of buildings at each place in which the expendi-
Limit of cost. ture is proposed (which limit of cost shall not exceed the sum of one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars at any one place) and which limit shall not thereafter be exceeded in any case, except by new and express
authorization of Congress.
Approved, February 17, 1911.

CHAP. 111.- An Act To amend section five of the Act of Congress of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to authorize advances to the 'reclamation fund,' and for the issue and disposal of certificates of indebtedness in reimbursement therefor, and for other purposes."

February 18, 1911. [S. 9405.]
[Public, No. 356.]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That section five of an Act entitled "An Act to authorize advances to the ' reclamation fund,' and
for the issue and disposal of certificates of indebtedness in reimburse·
ment therefor, and for other purposes," pproved June twenty-fifth,
-88740°-VOL 36, FT 1--11------ 60

Reclamation fund. Advances to. Ante, p. 835.

918

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 111-113. 1911 .

nineteen hundred and ten (Thirty- sixth Statutes at Large, page eight

hundred and thirty-five), be, and the same hereby is, amended as

follows:

No entries allowed until units, etc.,fixed.

" SEC. 5. That no entry shall be hereafter made and no entryman

edA. nte, p. 836, amend- shall be permitted to go upon lands reserved for irrigation purposes until the Secretary of the Interior shall have established the unit of

Proviso.

acreage and fixed the water charges and the date when the water can

quDiisshpeodsallandosf. relin- be applied and make public announcement of the same : Provided, That where entries made prior to June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred

Vol. 32, p. 388.

and ten, have been or may be relinquished in whole or in part, the lands so relinquished shall be subject to settlement and entry under the homestead law as amended by an Act entitled ' An Act appropri-

ating the receipts from the sale and disposal of the public lands in

certain States and Territories to the construction of irrigation works for the reclamation of arid lands,' approved June seventeenth, nine-

teen hundred and two (Thirty-second Statutes at Large, page three hundred and eighty-eight). "

Approved, February 18, 1911 .

February 18, 1911. CHAP. 112.-An Act For the relief of Oliva J. Baker, widow of Julian G. Baker, [H. R. 6776.] late quartermaster, United States Navy.
[Public, No. 387.]

Julian G. Baker.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Appropriation for States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

wofi.dow and children Treasury of the United States be, and he is hereby, directed and re-

quired to pay to the said Oliva J. Baker, widow of Julian G. Baker,

late quartermaster, United States Navy, the sum of one thousand and

twenty-two dollars, and said sum of one thousand and twenty-two

Provisos. Division.

dollars is hereby appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated : Provided, That the widow shall receive one-

half, and the children shall share and share alike in one-half: And

Payment for serv-

ices of agent.

provided further, That no agent, attorney, firm of attorneys, or other

persons engaged heretofore, or hereafter, in preparing, presenting, or

prosecuting any claim above referred to shall, directly or indirectly, demand, receive, or retain for such services in preparing, presenting,

or prosecuting such claim, or for any service or act whatsoever in

connection of such claim, a sum greater than five per centum of the cesPsu.nishment for ex- amount of such claim, and any person who shall violate the above

provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction

thereof shall be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars or be impris-

In effect.

oned not exceeding one year, or both, in the discretion of the court. SEC. 2. That this Act take effect from and after its passage.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. CHAP. 113.-An Act Revising and amending the statutes relative to trade-marks. (H. R. 24749.]

[Public, No. 388.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

Trade-marks.

States of America in Congress assembled, That section five of the Act

naRmeegsipsetrrmiatttieodn. of entitled " An Act to authorize the registration of trade-marks used Vol. 33, p. 725. in commerce with foreign nations or among the several States or

mended P. 1251, with Indian tribes, and to protect the same," approved February

twentieth, nineteen hundred and five, and amended by an Act approved March second, nineteen hundred and seven, be, and the same hereby is, further amended by adding at the end of the section

the words: "Provided further, That nothing herein shall prevent the registration of a trade-mark otherwise registrable because of its

being the name of the applicant or a portion thereof," so that the section as amended will read as follows :

Marks permitted " SEC..5. That no mark by which the goods ofthe owner of the mark

entry,

may be distinguished from other goods of the same class shall be

1 SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. Cs. 113-115. 1911. ·

919

refused registration as a trade-mark on account of the nature of

such mark unless such mark-

Prohibitions.

"(a) Consists of or comprises immoral or scandalous matter.

teIr.mmoral, etc., mat-

"(b) Consists of or comprises the flag or coat of arms or other Flags, insignia, etc.

insignia of the United States, or any simulation thereof, or of any

State or municipality, or of any foreign nation, or of any design or

picture that has been or may hereafter be adopted by any fraternal Provisos.
society as its emblem: Provided, That trade-marks which are identical similar to known with a registered or known trade-mark owned and in use by another, trade-marks.

and appropriated to merchandise of the same descriptive properties, or which so nearly resemble a registered or known trade-mark owned and in use by another, and appropriated to merchandise of the same descriptive properties, as to be likely to cause confusion or mistake in the mind of the public, or to deceive purchasers, shall not be registered: Provided, That no mark which consists merely in the raMmaerskosfiwniditvhiduoanllsy, name of an individual, firm, corporation, or association not written, otc. printed, impressed, or wovenin some particular or distinctive manner or in association with a portrait of the individual, or merely in words or devices which are descriptive- of the goods with which they are used, or of the character or quality of such goods, or merely a geographical name or term, shall be registered under the terms of this Act: Providedfurther, That no portrait of a living individual may be traUintasu. thorized porregistered as a trade-mark except by the consent of such individual, evidenced by an instrument in writing: And provided further, That yeMaarsrkpsermiinttuesde. ten nothing herein shall prevent the registration of any mark used by the applicant or his predecessors, or by those from whom title to the
mark is derived, in commerce with foreign nations or among the several States or with Indian tribes which was in actual and exclusive
use as a trade-mark of the applicant, or his predecessors from whom he derived title, for ten years next preceding February twentieth, nineteen hundred and five : Provided further, That nothing berein.naPmeremsi.ssible use of shall prevent the registration of a trade-mark otherwise registrable because of its being the name of the applicant or a portion thereof."
Approved, February 18, 1911.

CHAP. 114.--An Act For the relief of the sufferers from famine in China.

February 18, 1911. [H. R. 32473.]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Public, No. 889.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Chinese famine. is hereby authorized to transport, under the supervision of the Ameri- reTlrieafnssuppoprltimesa. ycarry can National Red Cross Society, the supplies donated by the people of the United States for the relief of the sufferers from famine in China,

and for this purpose may order one of the Army transports to make a Proviso. trip from Seattle, Washington, to China; Provided, That the total Limitation.

expense thus incurred shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars. And the sum of fifty thousand dollars is hereby appropriated and authorized to be paid out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose specified in this Act.

Appropriation.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

CHAP. 115.-An Act To reserve certain lands and to incorporate the same and February 18, 1911.

make them a part of the Pocatello National Forest.

[S. 9566.]

[Public, No. 390.] Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the following-described FoProecsatt,eIldlaohoN.ational lands, to wit, sections three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine, Lands added to.

township nine south, range thirty-five; section twenty-two, township

920

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 115-118. 1911 .
eight south, range thirty-four ; and section one, township nine south, range thirty-four, all in Bannock and Oneida counties, Idaho, be, and the same are hereby, reserved and withdrawn from entry and made a part of and included in the Pocatello National Forest.
Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. [8. 10583. ]
(Public, No. 391.]

CHAP. 116.-An Act To amend the charter of the Firemen's Insurance Company ofWashington and Georgetown, in the District of Columbia.
Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

DFiisrtreimcetno'fsColIunmsbuira-. States of America in Congress assembled, That section four of the Act
iannscuereCooumtpofanDiystmriacty. of Congress approved February seventh, eighteen hundred and fiftyVol. 11, p. 193, seven, entitled "An Act to extend the charter of the president and
amended. directors of the Firemen's Insurance Company of Washington and

Georgetown, in the District of Columbia, " is hereby amended so that

authority is given the said insurance company to write fire insurance on real and personal property wherever located and being, and shall

no longer be limited solely to the District of Columbia, as now.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. [H. R. 80571.]

CHAP. 117.-An Act Permitting the building of a dam across Rock River at

Lyndon, Illinois.

(Public, No. 392.]

Rock River.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Edward A. Smith States of America in Congress assembled, That Edward A. Smith and

amnady Hdaarmv,eayt SL.yGnrdeoenn, Harvey S. Green, of Morrison, Illinois, their heirs, administrators,

DI.

executors, successors , and assigns, are hereby authorized to construct,

maintain, and operate a dam across Rock River at apoint suitable tothe

interests of navigation at or near Lyndon, Whiteside County, Illinois, the south end of said dam to be located near the line between sections

twenty-one and twenty-two in township twenty north, range five east, fourth principal meridian, and the north end of said dam to intersect the bank of said river in section twenty-one in the same township, range, and meridian, and all works incident thereto in the utilization

Vol. 34, p. 386.

of the power thereby developed, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the

Amendment.

construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twentyfirst, nineteen hundred and six. "
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. [H. R. 31662.]
(Public, No. 393.]

CHAP. 118.-An Act Granting five years' extension of time to Charles H. Cornell, his assigns, assignees, successors, and grantees, in which to construct a dam across the Niobrara River, on the Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, and to construct electric light and power wires and telephone line and trolley or electric railway, with telegraph and telephone lines, across said reservation.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Niobrara River. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the time given Charles daTmimmiengex, ettec.n.doendFofrotr H. Cornell, his assigns, assignees, successors, and grantees, by an Act
NRieosebrvaartaioMn,iNleibtra. ry of Congress entitled "An Act to grant to Charles H. Cornell, his amVeonld.ed8.4, p. 297 , assigns and successors, the right to abut a dam across the Niobrara
River on the Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, Nebraska, and to
construct and operate a trolley or electric railway line and telegraph
and telephone lines across said reservation," approved June eighteenth,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. Cs. 118-120. 1911.

921

nineteen hundred and six, in which to construct and to putinto operation

such dam, and to construct and suspend wires across the said Fort Nio-

brara Military Reservation for the purpose of transmitting electric light and power, and to complete the construction of telegraph wires across said military reservation; also, the time in which to complete the construction and commence the operation of the trolley or electric

Right of way.

railway, with telegraph and telephone lines, over said Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, be, and the same is hereby, extended for five Proviso. years fromthedate of theapproval ofthis Act: Provided, That the privi- Revocation of privi leges granted in said Act may be revoked by order of the Secretary leges. of War, in the event of which, on the further order of the Secretary

of War so to do, any or all of the constructions of any kind, improvements, fixtures, or appurtenances, shall be removed by the owner of

the same at his or its own expensé and cost, and without any claim of any kind from the United States.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Amendment.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

CHAP. 119.--An Act Permitting the building of a wagon and trolley-car bridge Fe[bHr.uaRr.y811886,01.9]11. across the Saint Croix River between the States of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
[Public, No. 891.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of Congress

Saint Croix River. North et al

is hereby granted to H. L. North, W. É. Webster, and H. J. Ander- may bridge, Saint

son, of Hudson, Wisconsin, and their heirs, personal representatives, Croix County,Wis.

and assigns, to build a wagon and trolley-car bridge across the Saint Croix River, also known and designated as Lake Saint Croix, from a point suitable to the interests of navigation on the east bank of said river between the north line of section twenty-five of township twenty-

nine north, range twenty west, and the east and west quarter line of said section, in Saint Croix County, Wisconsin, to a point on the west bank of said river almost due west from the place of beginning, in

Washington County, Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

Vol. 84, p. 84.

SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved; February 18, 1911.

CHAP. 120.-An Act To authorize the Virginia Iron, Coal and Coke Company to Fe[bHr.uaRr.y31189,2129]11. build a dam across the New River near Foster Falls, Wythe County, Virginia..
[Public, No. 895.]
Beit enacted by the Senate and HouseofRepresentatives ofthe United New River. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Virginia Iron, Coal Virginia Iron, Coal and Coke Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the amnady dCaomk,eneCaormFposatneyr State of Virginia, its successors and assigns, be, and they are hereby, Falls, Va.
authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across the New River, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at a point near
Foster Falls, Wythe County, in the State of Virginia, in accordance
with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen Vol. 34, p. 386. hundred and ten, entitled " An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act · to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six."
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
' Approved, February 18, 1911.

922

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 121-123 . 1911 .

February 18, 1911. (H. R. 31925.]

CHAP. 121.--An Act Authorizing the building of a dam across the Savannah

River at Cherokee Shoals.

[Public, No. 396.]

Savannah River.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Hugh MacRae and States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That Hugh MacRae, M. F. H.

CCohemrpoakneyemShaoyaldsa, mGa,a.t Gouverneur, and E. W. Van C. Lucas, partners trading under the

firm name of Hugh MacRae and Company, bankers, of the city of

Wilmington, North Carolina, and their assigns, are hereby authorized

to construct and maintain a dam across the Savannah River, at a point

suitable to the interests of navigation, extending from a point in

Elbert County, Georgia, to a point in Abbeville County, South Carolina, upon or in the vicinity of Cherokee Shoals, and all works incident thereto in the utilization of the power thereby developed , in

Vol. 34, p. 386.

accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled " An Act to amend an Act entitled

'An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six."

Amendment.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

SEC. 3. That the Act of Congress approved March second, nineteen

Former law

pealed.

re- hundred and seven, entitled "An Act permitting the building of a

Vol. 34, p. 1255. dam across the Savannah River at Cherokee Shoals by the Hugh

MacRae Company, a corporation organized under the laws of South Carolina," is hereby repealed.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. CHAP. 122.-An Act Permitting the building of a dam across Rock River near [H. R. 31926.] Byron, Illinois.
[Public, No. 397.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Rock River. Byron Water Power

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Byron

Water

Power

Company may dam, Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of

near Byron, Ill.

Illinois, with its principal office at Byron, Illinois, its successors and

assigns, is hereby authorized to construct and maintain a dam across

Rock River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation near the upper end of an island in said river at or near the north line of the

Vol. 34, p. 386. Amendment.

south half of the southeast quarter of section twenty, township twentyfive north, range eleven east, of the fourth principal meridian , in Ogle County, Illinois, and all works incident thereto in the utilization of the power thereby developed, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 18, 1911.

February 18, 1911. [H. R. 31931.]

CHAP. 123.-An Act Authorizing the Ivanhoe Furnace Corporation, of Ivanhoe,

Wythe County, Virginia, to erect a dam across New River.

[Public, No: 398.]

New River..

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Ivanhoe Furnace

's of America in Congress assembled, That the Ivanhoe Furnace

dCaomrp, aotrIavtainohnoem, Vaay. Cporation, of Ivanhoe, Wythe County, Virginia, its successors and as. gns, be, and they are hereby authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across New River, at a point suitable to the interests of

Vol. 34, p. 386.

navigation, at Ivanhoe, Wythe County, Virginia, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hun-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHs. 128, 129-131. 1911,

.923 .

dred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six. "
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.
Approved, February 18, 1911.

Amendment.

CHAP. 129.-An Act To relinquish the title of the United States in New Madrid February 20, 1911.

location and survey numbered twenty-eight hundred and eighty.

[H. R. 27069.]

[Public, No.899.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Missouri. States of America in Congress assembled, That all the right, title, and Title of United

interest of the United States in and to the unpatented lands situated cSetrattaeisnrellainndqsuiins.hed to within the limits of the location of New Madrid claim numbered

seventy-two of Daniel Hazel, embracing portions of sections thirtyfour and thirty-five, township forty-nine north, range seventeen west,

fifth principal meridian, south of the Missouri River in the State of Missouri, be, and the same are hereby, granted, released, and relinquished by the United States to the respective owners of the equitable titles thereto and to their respective heirs and assigns forever, as

fully and completely, in every respect whatever, as could be done by

patents issued therefor according to law: Provided, That the con-

Proviso. Fitle,etc., of others

firmations granted hereby shall amount only to a relinquishment of not affected.

any title that the United States has or is supposed to have in and to

any of said lands, and shall not be construed to abridge, impair, injure, prejudice, or divestin any manner any valid right, title, or interest of any person or body corporate whatever, the true intent of this Act

being to concede and abandon all right, title, and interest of the United States to those persons, estates, firms, or corporations who would be the true and lawful owners of said lands under the laws of Missouri,

including the laws of prescription, in the absence of the said interest, title, and estate of the United States.

Approved, February 20, 1911.

CHAP 130.- An Act Authorizingthe Secretary of the Interior to sell a certain

February 20, 1911. [H. R. 29300.]

forty-acre tract of land to the Masonic Order in Oklahoma.

[Public, No. 4C9.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Most Worshipful

Oklahoma. Saleoflands in, to

Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of MGarsaonsd. Lodge of

Oklahoma is hereby granted ninety days' preference right, after the

passage of this Act, to purchase at its appraised value the following-

described tract of land, to wit: The southwest quarter of the north-

west quarter of section thirteen, township thirteen north of range

eight west of the Indian meridian, in the State of Oklahoma, and the

Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to appraise

and sell and convey by patent the said tract of land to the said lodge on such terms and conditions as he deem proper, requiring at least

twenty per centum of the purchase price to be paid in cash.

Approved, February 20, 1911.

CHAP. 131.-An Act To authorize the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to February 20, 1911.

purchase certain lands for lighthouse purposes.

[H.R. 31066.]

[Public, No. 401.]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com- BPuirgcBhaaysPeooifnlta, Mnidcfho.r

merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to purchase, for light station at.

924

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 131-134. 1911.
lighthouse purposes, certain lands adjoining the present site of the Big Bay Point light station, Michigan, and containing twenty-eight acres, more or less ; and to expend therefor, from the appropriation heretofore made by Congress, for " Repairs and incidental expenses of lighthouses, nineteen hundred and eleven," a sum not to exceed one thousand four hundred and twenty-five dollars, and to take and record the necessary and proper title papers for said lands.
Approved, February 20, 1911.

February 20, 1911. [H. R. 31600. ]

CHAP. 132.-An Act To authorize the erection upon the Crown Point Lighthouse

Reservation, New York, of a memorial to commemorate the discovery of Lake

[Public, No. 402.] Champlain.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Lake Champlain. Memorial author- States of America in Congress assembled, That the commissions which

ILziegdhtohnouCsreowRneseProvian-t were appointed by the States of Vermont and New York to have charge

tion .

of the recent celebration commemorating the three hundredth anni-

versary of the discovery of Lake Champlain by Samuel de Champlain,

and which have been authorized by said States to build a suitable

memorial commemorating said discovery, are hereby granted per-

Proviso.

mission to erect such memorial upon the Crown Point Lighthouse

Approval of plans, Reservation, New York: Provided, That before any actual work of

etc.

construction shall be begun upon the structure the plans and specifica-

tions therefor, both preliminary and detailed, shall be submitted to

the Secretary of Commerce and Labor for his approval, and after

they have been approved by him they shall not be deviated from
without his prior approval. UnAitcecdeSptattaesn.ce by SEC. 2. That upon the completion of the structure in accordance

with the provisions of this Act the Secretary of Commerce and Labor

Maintenance.

is hereby authorized and directed to accept the same, free of expense, for and in behalf of the United States.
SEC. 3. That upon the acceptance of the structure by the United

States the same shall be maintained as an aid to navigation at the

expense of the appropriations for maintenance of the Lighthouse Service.

Approved, February 20, 1911 .

February 20, 1911. [H. R. 31166.]
(Public, No. 403.]

CHAP. 133.- An Act To authorize the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to exchange a certain right of way.
Be itenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PoCinht,eWqisu.amegon States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of ComChange of right of merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to exchange a certain

way tolight station. right of way, now vested in the United States, extending from the

keeper's dwelling to the United States light station at Chequamegon

Point, Wisconsin, for a similar right of way on a more direct line

Proviso. No expense.

between the same points, and to execute the necessary conveyance
therefor: Provided, That such exchange be effected without expense to the United States.

Approved, February 20, 1911.

February 20, 1911. CHAP. 134.-An Act To authorize certain changes in the permanent system of [H. R. 20375.] highways, District of Columbia.
[Public, No. 404.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
DiNsetrwicthiogfChowlauympbliaan. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Commissioners of fornorthwestsection. the District of Columbia are hereby authorized to prepare a new high-
way plan for that triangular portion of the District of Columbia lying

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 134, 135, 141. 1911.'

925

north of Rittenhouse street, west of Thirty-third street, and southeast of the District line, under the provisions contained in the Act of Congress approved March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, entitled "An Act to provide a permanent system of highways in that part of the District of Columbia lying outside of cities," and an amendment to said Actapproved June twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight; that upon the completion and recording of said new highway plan it shall take the place of and stand for any previous plan for said portion of the District of Columbia.
Approved, February 20, 1911.

Vol, 27, p. 532. Vol. 80, p. 519.

'CHAP. 135.-An Act To authorize the extension of Thirteenth street northwest February 20, 1911.

from its present terminus north of Madison,street to Piney Branch road.

[H. R. 22688.]

[Public, No. 405.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That under and in accordance DTishtirritceteonftChoslutmrbeieat.

with the provisions of subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of noCrotnhwdeesmtn.ing land Law for the District of Columbia, within six months after the passage for extending.

of this Act the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be, and Vol. 34, p. 161.

they are hereby, authorized and directed to institute in the supreme

court of the District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the

land that may be necessary for the opening of Thirteenth street northwest from its terminus north of Madison street to Piney Branch road,

with a width of one hundred and ten feet according to the plan for a Proviso. permanent system of highways in the District of Columbia: Provided, Damages assessed however, That the entire amount found to be due and awarded by the asbenefits.

jury in said proceeding as damages, for and in respect of the land to be condemned for said extension, plus the costs and expenses of said

proceeding, shall be assessed by the jury as benefits.

Appropriations for

SEO. 2. That there is hereby appropriated out of the revenues of the expenses, etc.

District of Columbia an amount sufficient to pay the necessary costs

and expenses of the said condemnation proceedings taken pursuant hereto, and for the payment of the amounts awarded as damages, to be Payment ofawards.

repaid to the District of Columbia from the assessments for benefits and covered into the Treasury to the credit of the revenues of the District of Columbia.

Approved, February 20, 1911.

CHAP. 141.--An Act To authorize the Government to contract for impounding, Febr[uSa.r6y95231.,] 1911. storing, and carriage of water, and to cooperate in the construction and use of reser-

voirs and canals under reclamation projects, and forother purposes.

[Public, No.406.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Reclamation projStates of America in Congress assembled, That whenever in carrying ects

out the provisions of the reclamation law, storage or carrying capacity unIdrreirgaCtairoeny sAycsttmeamys

has been or may be provided in excess of the requirements of the lands cwoantterrasc. t for excess

to be irrigated under any project, the Secretary of the Interior, pre-

28, p. 122.

servinga first right to lands and entrymen under the project, is hereby

authorized, upon such terms as he may determine to be just and equi-

table, to contract for the impounding, storage, and carriage of water

to an extent not exceeding such excess capacity with irrigation systems

operating under the Act of August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and

ninety-four, known as the Carey Act, and individuals, corporations,

associations, and irrigation districts organized for or engaged in fur- Distribution to indinishing or in distributing water for irrigation. Water so impounded, vidual users.

stored, or carried under any such contract shall be for the purpose of

distribution to individual water users by the party with whom the con-

926

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 141, 142. 1911.

Proviso. Restriction

on

im- tract

is made:

Provided,

however,

That

water

so impounded, stored,

pounded water.

or carried shall not be used otherwise than as prescribed by law as to

Charges. Maximum.

lands held in private ownership within Government reclamation projects. In fixing the charges under any such contract for impounding, storing, or carrying water for any irrigation system, corporation, association, district, or individual, as herein provided, the Secretary shall take into consideration the cost of construction and maintenance
of the reservoir by which such water is to be impounded or stored and the canal by which it is to be carried, and such charges shall be just and equitable as to water users under the Government project. No

irrigation system, district, association, corporation , or individual so

contracting shall make any charge for the storage, carriage, ordelivery

of such water in excess of the charge paid to the United States except

to such extent as may be reasonably necessary to cover cost of carriage

and delivery of such water through their works.

Cooperation with water users for reser-

SEC. 2. That in carrying out the provisions of said reclamation Act

voirs, etc.

and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, the Secretary

of the Interior is authorized, upon such terms as may be agreed upon,

to cooperate with irrigation districts, water users associations, corporations, entrymen or water users for the construction or use of such

reservoirs, canals, or ditches as may be advantageously used by the Government and irrigation districts, water users associations, corpora-

Provisos.

tions, entrymen or water users for impounding, delivering and carry-

Title toworks, etc. ing water for irrigation purposes: ' Provided, That the title to and

Limit of water al management of the works so constructed shall be subject to the pro-

lowed.

visions of section six of said Act: Providedfurther, That water shall

not be furnished from any such reservoir or delivered through any such

canal or ditch to any one landowner in excess of an amount sufficient

stRrieagmhst ntootcafofnetctreod.l to irrigate one hundred and sixty acres: Provided, That nothing contained in this Act shall be held or construed as enlarging or attempting

to enlarge the right of the United States, under existing law, to control

the waters of any stream in any State.

Moneys to be avail-

able for reclamation SEO. 3. That the moneys'received in pursuance of such contracts

fund .

shall be covered into the reclamation fund and be available for use

under the terms of the reclamation -Act and the Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto.

Approved, February 21 , 1911.

February 21, 1911. CHAP. 142.-An Act To authorize E. J. Bomer and S. B. Wilson to constructand (H. R. 26685.] operate an electric railway over the National Cemetery road at Vicksburg, Missis-
[Public, No. 407.] sippi.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
ViNcaktsibounragl, Mciesmse.tery, States of America in Congress assembled, That permission is hereby edRoivgehrt roof awdatyo.grant given to E. J. Bomer and S. B. Wilson , their associates, successors,
and assigns, to erect, construct, operate, and maintain an electric rail-

Provisos: Driveway, etc.

way over and along the National Cemetery road, at Vicksburg, Mississippi, from said city of Vicksburg northward to the northern boundary of the government right of way for said road: Provided, That a

minimum width of thirty feet of roadway, over and above that used by the railway tracks, be left all along said road for a driveway, side-

walk, and gutters; that the licensees, their associates, successors, and assigns, shall repair all damage done to the government roadway by the construction of their line of railway, and shall maintain their railway and said roadway within the tracks and for two feet on each side apSpercorveetaprlyanosf, Wetac.rto of the tracks in proper state and repair thereafter: And provided

further, That said electric railway shall be constructed, operated, and maintained according to plans and specifications to be submitted to and

approved by the Secretary of War, and under such regulations as may

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH8. 142-144, 148. 1911.

927

be prescribed by him; and that chapter one hundred and fifty-two of peFaolerd.mer law re the Act of the second session of the Fifty-ninth Congress, entitled " An Vol. 34, p. 849. Act to authorize George T. Houston and Frank B. Houston to construct and operate an electric railwayover the National Cemetery road at Vicksburg, Mississippi," approved January eighteenth, nineteen hundred and seven, be, and the same is hereby, repealed: Provided Revocation. further, That it shall be in the power of the Secretary of War, at any time, to revoke the license granted in this Act.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, February 21, 1911.

CHAP. 143.- An Act To ratify a certain lease with the Seneca Nation of Indians. Feb[Hr.uaRr.y812016,61.9]11.
Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Public, No. 403.]
States of America in Congress assembled, That a lease bearing date LSeenaesceawIintdhiaEndswNa.rY.d August tenth, nineteen hundred and ten, between the Seneca Nation Bolard ratified. ofIndians on the Cattaraugus and Allegany Reservations, in the State of NewYork, and Edward Bolard, of Cattaraugus County, New York, Proviso. is hereby ratified and confirmed: Provided, That the lessee or his Bond required. assigns shall file a bond for the benefit of the lessor in the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars for the faithful performance of the terms of said lease, to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
Approved, February 21, 1911.

CHAP. 144.- An Act To authorize United States marshals and their respective chief office deputies to administer certain oaths.
Be itenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

February 21, 1911. [H. R. 81657.]
[Public, No. 409.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That each United States UMnairtsehdalStsatmesacyouratds.marshal and each chief deputy United Statesmarshal is hereby author- minister oaths todepized and empowered to administeroaths to the marshal's deputies and uatciceosu,nettsc..,presenting

other persons presenting to the marshal claims and accounts for pay- Proviso. ment: Provided, That the United States marshal or chief deputy

marshal shall not be entitled to any fee for administering such oaths.

Approved, February 21, 1911.

CHAP. 148.-An Act Amending an Act entitled "An Act to amend an Act to provide the times and places for holding terms of the United States court in the States of Idaho and Wyoming," approved June first, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight.

February23, 1911. [S. 3316.]
[Public, No. 410.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That section three of "An trIidcta. ho judicial dis Act to provide the times and places for holding terms of the United VVooll.. 8207,, pp,.47223. States courts in the States of Idaho and Wyoming," approved July Post, P.1109. fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, as amended by the amendatory Act approved June first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, be amended so as to read as follows:
"SEO. 3. That for the purpose of holding terms of the district DViovils.ion3s0o, fdpi.str4i2c3t., court said district shall be divided into four divisions, to be known amended. as the northern, central, southern, and eastern divisions. The terri- Northern.
tory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Shoshone, Kootenai, and Bonner shall constitute the
northern division of said district; and the territory embraced on the Central. date last mentioned in the counties of Latah, Nez Perce, and Idaho -shall constitute the central division of said district ; and the territory Southern.

!

928

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 148, 149.- 1911.

embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Ada, Boise,

Eastern.

Blaine, Cassia, Twin Falls, Canyon, Elmore, Lincoln, Owyhee, and Washington shall constitute the southern division of said district; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the coun-

ties of Bingham, Bear Lake, Custer, Fremont, Bannock, Lemhi, and

Oneida shall constitute the eastern division of said district."

Terms.

Vol . 30, p. 424, SEC. 2. That section six of said Act as amended by the Act

amended.

approved June first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, be amended

so as to read as follows:

Coeur d'Alene City. "SEC. 6. That the terms of the district court for the northern

Moscow.

division of the State of Idaho shall be held at Coeur d'Alene City on the fourth Monday in May and the third Monday in November; for

Boise City.

the central division, at Moscow on the second Monday in May and the first Monday in November; for the southern division, at Boise

Pocatello.

City on the second Mondays in February and September; and for the eastern division, at Pocatello on the second Mondays in March

and October ; and the provision of any statute now existing provid-

ing for the holding of said terms on any day contrary to this Act is suiTtrsa,nestfce.r of pending hereby repealed ; and all suits, prosecutions, process, recognizance,

bail bonds, and other things pending in or returnable to said court

are hereby transferred to, and shall be made returnable to, and have force in the said respective terms in this Act provided in the same manner and with the same effect as they would have had had said

existing statute not been passed. Offices of clerk, etc. "That the clerk of the district and circuit courts for the district of

Idaho and the marshal and district attorney for said district shall

perform the duties appertaining to their offices, respectively, for said CoDeeurpdu'tAlyencelCeirtky.at courts of the said several divisions of said judicial district. When-
ever in the judgment of the district and circuit judges the business of said courts hereafter shall warrant the employment of a deputy

clerk at Coeur d'Alene City, new books and records may be opened

for the said court, and a deputy clerk appointed to reside and keep his office at Coeur d'Alene City.

Approved, February 23, 1911 .

February 24, 1911. CHAP. 149.--An Act To amend the provisions of the Act of Marchthird, eighteen [H. R. 27837. ] hundred and eighty-five, limiting the compensation of storekeepers, gaugers, and
[Public, No. 411.] storekeeper-gaugers in certain cases to two dollars a day, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Internal revenue. States of America in Congress assembled, That the provisions of the
Storekeepers, gaug-

egrasu,gaernsd. storekeeper- legislative, executive, and judicial appropriations Act for the fiscal
Vol. 28 , p. 404 , year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six (Twentyamended.
third Statutes, page four hundred and four), approved March third,

eighteen hundred and eighty-five, which limits to two dollars per day

the compensation of storekeepers, gaugers, and storekeeper-gaugers

assigned to distilleries whose registered capacity is twenty bushels or

Pay increased.

less, be, and the same is hereby, amended, so as to read as follows: "Hereafter storekeepers, gaugers, and storekeeper-guagers who are

assigned to distilleries with a registered capacity of twenty bushels or

less, or who are assigned to other places where the compensation is

now less than three dollars a day, shall receive three dollars a day for services. "

Approved, February 24, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 150-152. 1911 .

929

CHAP. 150.-An Act To authorize J. W. Vance, L. L. Allen, C. F. Helwig, and
H. V. Worley, of Pierce City, Missouri; A. B. Durnil, D. H. Kemp, Sig Soloman. J. J. Davis, S. A. Chappell, and W. M. West, of Monett, Missouri ; M. L. Coleman, M. T. Davis, Jared R. Woodfill, junior, J. H. Jarrett, and William H. Standish, of Aurora, Lawrence County, Missouri; and L. S. Meyer, F. S. Hefferuan, Robert A. Moore, William H. Johnson, J. P. McCammon, M. W. Colbaugh, and W. H. Schreiber, of Springfield, Greene County, Missouri, to construct a dam across the James River, in Stone County, Missouri, and to divert a portion of its waters through a tunnel into the said river again to create electric power.

February 24, 1911. (S. 574.]
[Public, No. 412.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United James River.

States of America in Congress assembled, That J. W. Vance, L. L. J..

ce and , in

Allen, C. F. Helwig, and H. V. Worley, of Pierce City, Missouri ; A. B. oBtihgerBsenmd o.

Durnil, D. H. Kemp, Sig Soloman, J. J. Davis, S. A. Chappell, and

W. M. West, of Monett, Missouri ; M. L. Coleman, M. T. Davis,

Jared R. Woodfill, junior, J. H. Jarrett, and William H. Standish,

of Aurora, Lawrence County, Missouri ; and L. S: Meyer, F. S. Heffernan, Robert A. Moore, William H. Johnson, J. P. McCammon,

M. W. Colbaugh, and W. H. Schreiber, of Springfield, Greene County, Missouri, their heirs and assigns, be, and they are hereby, author-

· ized to construct, maintain, and operate a damin the Big Bend of the James River, in section twenty-two, township twenty-three north, range twenty-four west, in the county of Stone and State of Missouri,

across the said James River at said point, and to impound thereat in what is known as the Lower Narrows of the Big Bend of the said

James River, the waters of said river, and by canal and tunnel to

divert and conduct across said narrows such portion of the water of said river, through said tunnel into said river again, as may be neessary for electric-power purposes. The construction, maintenance, Construction, etc.

and operation of the dam herein authorized, as well as the determina-

tion of the rights and obligations under the permission granted
hereby, shall be in all respects in accordance with and subject to the -. provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred

and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regu-

late the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June.twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend. or repeal this Act in whole. or in part is hereby expressly reserved .

Amendment.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

CHAP. 151.-An Act Providing for the naturalization of the wife and minor chil- Febru[Sa.r9y14234.,)1911.

dren of insane aliens, making homestead entries under the land laws of the United

States.

[Public, No. 413.]

Beit enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Insane aliens. States of America in Congress assembled, That when any alien, who Completion of nathas declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, uetrca.l,iozfa,tioomnabkeyhwoimfee-. becomes insane before he is actually naturalized, and his wife shall stead entry. thereafter make a homestead entry under the land laws of the United
States, she and their minor children may, by complying with the other provisions of the naturalization. laws be naturalized without making any declaration of intention.
Approved, February 24, 1911.

CHAP. 152.---An Act For establishing a light and fog-signal station on the San Pedro breakwater, California.

February 24,1911. (S.10011 .]
[Public, No. 414.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United San Pedro breakStates ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com- water, Cal. merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to establish a light auLtihgorhit,zeedtoc.n,. station and fog-signal station on the San Pedro breakwater, California, at a Post, p. 1431. cost not to exceed thirty-six thousand dollars.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

930

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 153-155. · 1911.

February 24, 1911. CHAP. 153.-An Act To authorize the Secretary of War to grant a right of way

[S. 10401.]

through lands of the United States to the Buckhannon and Northern Railroad

[Public, No. 415.] Company.

Be itenacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
MBouncoknhgaanhneolna Riavnerd; States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War
NCoormtphaenrny Rgarialnrtoeadd be, and he is hereby, authorized, in his discretion, to grant the Buckrliagnhdts oofflwocaksyoanc.ross hannon and Northern Railroad Company a right of way through lands
of the United States, on the western bank of the Monongahela River,

Amendment.

in the State of West Virginia, adjacent to locks numbered ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, and fourteen, at such price, and on such terms and conditions, as he may consider just, equitable, and expedient.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

February 24, 1911. [S. 10431.]

CHAP. 154.-An Act To authorize the Argenta Railway Company to construct a

bridge across the Arkansas River between the cities of Little Rock and Argenta,

[Public, No. 416.] Arkansas.

Arkansas River.

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

CoAmrpgeanntyamaRyabirliwdgaey, States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, Thatthe Argenta RailwayComgLietnttlae, ARrokc.k to Ar- pany, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Arkansas,
its successors and assigns, be, and it is hereby, authorized to construct,
maintain, and operate a bridgeand approaches thereto across the Arkan-

Vol.34, p. 84. Amendment.

sas River from a point in the city of Little Rock, Arkansas, suitable to the interests of navigation, to some point in the city of Argenta, on the north bank of said river, in the county of Pulaski, State of Arkansas, said bridge to be for the purpose of the passage of the street- car traffic carried on by said company or under its authority, and also, at the option of said company, its successors, and assigns, to be used for the passage of wagons, vehicles, interurban cars, animals, and persons on foot and in vehicles, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six, except as to section three of said Act.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

February 24, 1911. [S. 10574.]
[ Public, No. 417. ]

CHAP. 155.-An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act providing for the with-
drawal from public entry of lands needed for town-site purposes in connection with irrigation projects under the reclamation Act of June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two, and for other purposes," approved April sixteenth, nineteen hundred and six.

Reclamation act. Vol. 32, p. 388.

Be it enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That section five of an Act entitled "An Act providing for the withdrawal from public entry of

lands needed for town-site purposes in connection with irrigation

projects under the reclamation Act of June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two, and for other purposes," approved April sixteenth,

nineteen hundred and six, be amended so as to read as follows:

Leases of surplus water power.

"SEC. 5. That whenever a development of power is necessary for

amVeonld.ed3.4 , p. 117, the irrigation of lands, under any project undertaken under the said

Terms, etc.

reclamation Act, or an opportunity is afforded for the development of power under any such project, the Secretary of the Interior is author-

ized to lease for a period not exceeding ten years, giving preference to municipal purposes, any surplus power or power privilege, and the money derived from such leases shall be covered into the reclamation

fund and be placed to the credit of the project from which such power

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . CHS. 155-158 . 1911 .

931

is derived: Provided, That no lease shall be made of such surplus PIrmopvaiisroisng irrigapower or power privileges as will impair the efficiency of the irriga- ittieodn. projects prohibtion project: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Interior is Longer term on Rio
authorized, in his discretion, to make such a lease in connection with Grande project.
Rio Grande project in Texas and New Mexico for a longer period not

exceeding fifty years, with the approval of the water users' association or associations under any such project, organized in conformity with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior in pursuance of section six of the reclamation Act approved June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two. " .

Vol. 82,p. 889.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

CHAP. 156.--An Act To authorize the Rainy River Improvement Company to February 24,1911.

construct a dam across the outlet of Namakan Lake at Kettle Falls, in Saint Louis

[S. 10596.]

County, Minnesota.

[Public, No. 418.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States ofAmerica inCongress assembled, Thatthe Rainy River Improve. Namakan Lake, ment Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State prRoavienmyenRtivCeormpIamn-y of Minnesota, its successors and assigns, be, and they are hereby, Fmaallys,dMaimn,n.at Kettle authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a dam across the outlet of Lake Namakan at Kettle Falls, in Saint Louis County, Minnesota, at
a point suitable to the interests of navigation, in accordance with the
provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred Vol. 34, p. 356.
and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six."

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

CHAP. 167.--An Act Providing for aids to navigation along the Livingstone February 24, 1911.

Channel, Detroit River, Michigan.

[S. 10690.]

[Public, No. 419.] Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com- DAeitdrsoittoRniavveir.gation

merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to establish and authorized along Liv

provide

such

lights and

buoys

as

may, in

his judgment,

be necessary

ingstone Channel. 1 ,p.1431.

to properly mark the Livingstone Channel in the Detroit River,

Michigan, at an expense not to exceed two hundred and ten thousand

dollars.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

CHAP, 158.-An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act permitting the building Febr[u8.ar10y72574., ]1911. of a dam across the Mississippi River at or near the village of Sauk Rapids, Benton County, Minnesota," approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and four. [Public, No. 420.1
Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That section three of an Act MTiismsiesseixptpienRdievderf.or entitled "An Act permitting the building of a dam across the Missis- damming, at Sauk sippi River at or near the village of Sauk Rapids, Benton County, Vol.33, p.53, amendMinnesota," approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and ed.
four, be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows: "SEC. 3. That this Act shall be null and void and all rights acquired tiToni.me of construc-
under the same forfeited unless the construction of the dam herein Vol. 34, p. 1058. Ante, p. 902.
authorized be commenced on or before the first day of July, anno Domini nineteen hundred and eleven, and such construction continued
with and the dam completed within two years from the date last mentioned. "
Approved, February 24, 1911.

:

932

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 159, 160, 164. 1911.

February 24, 1911. [S. 10836.]

CHAP. 159.-An Act To authorize the Minnesota River Improvement and Power

Company to construct dams across the Minnesota River.

[Public, No. 421.]

Minnesota River. Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United MinnesotaRiverIm- States of America. in Congress assembled, That the Minnesota River
pCroomvpeamneyntmaanyddPaomwe. r Improvement and Power Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, its successors and assigns, be,

and they are hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate

dams across the Minnesota River at points suitable to the interests

of navigation, as follows:

At outlet of Lake

Bigstone.

First. One at or near the outlet of Lake Bigstone, in the counties

of Bigstone and -Lac qui Parle, Minnesota, and the county of Grant,

South Dakota, and in that connection to divert the waters of the

Whetstone River into Bigstone Lake.

Confluence with Redwood River.

Second. One at or, near the confluence of the Redwood and Min-

nesota Rivers between the counties of Renville and Redwood, in

Construction, etc. Vol. 34, p. 386.
Ante, p.693.

said State. Each of said dams are to be constructed, maintained, and operated
in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-

third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to amend an Act

Amendment.

entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six."
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved .

Approved, February 24, 1911 .

February 24, 1911. CHAP. 160.-An Act To provide for sittings of the United States circuit and dis (H. R. 23695.] trict courts of the northern district of Mississippi at the city of Clarksdale, in said
[Public, No. 422.] district.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

juMdisciiaslidpipsitrnicotr.thern States of America in Congress assembled, That there shall be held at

daTlee.rms at Clarks- the city of Clarksdale, in the northern district of Mississippi, a term Vol. 22, p. 101, of both the circuit and district courts of said district on the second

amended .
Proviso. Court rooms.

Monday in June and the second Monday in December of each year: Provided, That suitable rooms and accommodations shall be furnished

for the holding of said court without expense to the Government of

the United States.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

February 25, 1911. CHAP. 164.-An Act To restore to the public domain certain lands withdrawn

[S. 8457.]

for reservoir purposes in Millard County, Utah.

(Public, No. 423.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Public lands.

Lands in Millard States of America in Congress assembled, That the President may, in

Cstoournetdyt,o eUnttrayh. , re his discretion , restore to the public domain, subject to entry under the

Vol. 25, p. 527.

public- land laws of the United States, such portions of the lands with-

drawn under the Act of October second, eighteen hundred and eighty-

eight, for a United States reservoir site, in Millard County, Utah, not

necessary for reservoir purposes, as he may designate.

Approved, February 25, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 165, 166. 1911.

933

CHAP. 165.-An Act To authorize the construction of drawless bridges across a

February 27, 1911. [H. R. 26150.]

certain portion of the Charles River in the State of Massachusetts.

[Public, No. 424.]

Beit enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Metropolitan Park CBhrairdlgeess Raiuvtehro.rized Commission, or any town or city, or any other public body authorized bacrriodsgse baentwdeeBnosCtaomn-, by the State of Massachusetts, all or any of them, be, and they hereby
are, authorized to construct, at any time hereafter, drawless bridges
across the Charles River in the State of Massachusetts connecting
River Street in Cambridge and Cambridge Street in the Brighton dis-
trict, so called, of Boston, and at any other points upon said river, at, Provisos.
near, or above said Cambridge and River Streets: Provided, That said Height, etc.
bridges shall be at least twelve feet above the ordinary level of the
water in the basin over the main ship channel, and the piers and other obstructions to the flow of the river shall be constructed in such form Compensation to and in such places as the Secretary of War shall approve: Provided owners of abutting

further, That before the construction of said bridges or any of them property. is begun, the State of Massachusetts shall by legislative enactment provide for adequate compensation for the owner, owners, lessee or lessees of property abutting on said river above any of the said bridges, for damages if any caused to said property or leasehold interests therein by reason of interference with the access by water to said property, due to the construction of bridges without draws: Provided BeCssomdmaimsasgieosn. to as further, That said legislative enactment shall provide for the appointment of three commissioners to hear the parties in interest and assess the damages to said property; their decision as to the amount of

damages and questions of fact to be final; said commissioners to be appointed by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. Except
as inconsistent herewith, this Act shall be subject to the provisions of an Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

CVoonls.t3r4u,cpt.i8o4n..

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, February 27, 1911.

CHAP. 166.-An Act Making appropriations for the construction, repair, and

February 27, 1911. [H. R. 28632]

preservation of certain public works on rivers and harbors, and for other purposes,

[Public, No. 425.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums of apRpirvoperrisaatinodnsh.arbors

money be, and are hereby, appropriated, to be paid out of any money

in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to be immediately available, and to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War

and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers for the construction,

completion, repair, and preservation of the public works hereinafter named :
Breakwater from Mount Desert to Porcupine Island, Bar Harbor, Maine: Continuing construction, thirty thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said

Bar Harbor, Me. Breakwater.
PCroonvtirsaoc.ts.

project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be

made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one hundred and fortyfive thousand two hundred dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein

and heretofore appropriated.

Improving Pepperells Cove, Maine: Continuing improvement, thirty-five thousand dollars.
Improving Saco River, Maine: Completing improvement, twentyfive thousand dollars.

Pepperells Cove, Me. Saco River, Me.

Improving Exeter River, New Hampshire: Completing improve ment in accordance with the report submitted in House Document
88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-61

Exeter River, N. H.

934

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

Numbered One thousand and ninety, ' Sixty-first Congress, third ses-

Burlington, Vt.

sion, nine thousand two hundred dollars. Improving harbor at Burlington, Vermont : For maintenance and

Gloucester, Mass. Nantucket, Mass.

repair of breakwater, two thousand five hundred dollars. Improving harbor at Gloucester, Massachusetts : For maintenance,
fifteen thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Nantucket, Massachusetts: Continuing im-

provement and for maintenance, twenty thousand dollars.

New Bedford and

Fairhaven, Mass.

Improving harbors at New Bedford and Fairhaven, Massachusetts:

Proviso. Contracts.

Continuing improvement; fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That the

Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such mate-

rials and work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to

be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law,

not to exceed in the aggregate one hundred and twenty-seven thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appro-

priated.

Sandy Bay, Cape Ann, Mass.

Harbor of refuge at Sandy Bay, Cape Ann, Massachusetts : Con-

tinuing improvement, one hundred thousand dollars.

Mystic and Malden Rivers, Mass.

Improving Mystic and Malden Rivers, Massachusetts : For main-

tenance, ten thousand dollars.

Taunton River, Mass.

Improving Taunton River, Massachusetts : For maintenance, five

thousand dollars.

Weymouth Fore

River, Mass.

Improving Weymouth Fore River, Massachusetts : Completing

improvement below the Quincy Point Bridge in accordance with

report submitted in House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred

Block Island, R. I. Harbor ofrefuge.
Point Judith, R.I. Harbor of refuge. Proviso. Contracts.

and thirty-four, Sixty-first Congress, third session, one hundred and forty thousand dollars.
Improving harbor of refuge at Block Island, Rhode Island : For maintenance, twelve thousand five hundred dollars.
Harbor of refuge at Point Judith, Rhode Island: Continuing improvement and for maintenance, fifty thousand dollars : Provided,
That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to prosecute the said

project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be

made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate four hundred and fifty thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore

appropriated.

Pawtucket River,

R. I.

Improving Pawtucket River, Rhode Island : For maintenance,

five thousand dollars.

Duck Island, Conn. Harbor of refuge.

Harbor of refuge at Duck Island, Connecticut: Continuing improve-

Proviso. Contracts.

ment, one hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and

work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid

for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to

exceed in the aggregate one hundred and ninety thousand dollars,

exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.

Fivemile River and Greenwich, Conn.

Improving harbors at Fivemile River and Greenwich, Connecticut :

For maintenance, three thousand five hundred dollars.

Connecticut River, Conn., below Hart-

Improving Connecticut River, Connecticut, below Hartford, in

ford.

accordance with the report submitted in House Document Numbered

Proviso. Contracts.

Twelve hundred and ninety-four, Sixty-first Congress, third session, seventy-seven thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work

as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as

appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed

in the aggregate one hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the

amount herein appropriated .

New Haven, Conn. Breakwater.

Breakwater at New Haven, Connecticut: Completing construction,

thirty-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

935

Improving Black Rock Harbor, New York: Continuing improve- N.BYl.ack Rock Harbor, ment, four hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary Provisos.
ofWar may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and Contracts.

work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to

exceed in the aggregate three hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated. The Secretary BUisred IbsylaBnudfPfialeor. as of War is hereby authorized to grant to the city of Buffalo, New park, granted. York, the right and privilege of occupying, improving, and using, for the purpose of establishing a public park and landing facilities,
that part of the structure known as " Bird Island Pier," on Niagara

River, lying north of Albany Street extended in said city and forming a part of the Black Rock Harbor improvement, and the lands of the United States under water along both sides of said pier to the estab-

lished harbor lines, on such terms, conditions, and stipulations as he

may deem expedient and equitable and necessary for the protection of all the interests of the United States in and to said premises: Condition. Provided, That in the opinion of the Attorney General of the United

States the granting of such right and privilege is permissible under

the terms of the grant from the State of New York by which said premises are holden: Provided further, That in case the Attorney Consent of New General shall be of the opinion that the granting of the said right and privilege is not permissible under the terms of the aforesaid grant, the said right and privilege shall not be granted by the Secretary of War until the city of Buffalo shall have secured the sanction and consent of the State of New York through its constituted agencies.
Improving harbor at Buffalo, New York: The Secretary ofWar is BSutfofnayloP,oNinYt.break. hereby authorized to apply from appropriations heretofore made for water. repairing and rebuilding breakwaters and for maintenance of structures fifteen thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary,

to the completion of the Stony Point Breakwater.

Charlotte, N.Y.

Improving harbor at Charlotte, New York: For maintenance, fifty

thousand dollars.

Improving harbor at Great Sodus Bay, New York: For main- N.Great Sodus Bay,

tenance, thirty thousand dollars.

Improving Hempstead Harbor, New York: Completing improve- Hempstead, N. Y.

ment, twenty-three thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That

Proviso. Restriction.

no part of this sum shall be expended upon the channel above the

town wharf until a suitable dumping ground for the material dredged

shall have been furnished by the local interests free of cost.

Little Sodus ' Bay,

Improving harbor at Little Sodus Bay, New York: For mainte- N..

nance, thirty thousand dollars.

Ambrose Channel,

Improving New York Harbor, New York: For maintenance, N..

including Ambrose Channel, one hundred thousand dollars.

Oswego, N.Y.

Improving harbor at Oswego, New York: Continuing improvement

in accordance with plan A and for maintenance, eighty-five thousand

dollars.

Rondoutand Peeks-

Improving harbors at Rondout and Peekskill, New York: For kill, N.Y.

maintenance, six thousand dollars. East Chester Creek,
Improving East Chester Creek, New York: Continuing improve- N.Y.

ment and for maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

East Riverand Hell

Removing obstructions in East River and Hell Gate, New York: Gate, NY. Continuing improvement, including work atthe Middle Ground and in

the channel between North Brother and South Brother Islands, two hundred thousand dollars.

Improving Harlem River, New York: Continuing improvement,

seventy-five thousand dollars,

-

Improving Hudson River, New York: Continuing improvement

and for maintenance, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Harlem River, N.Y. Hudson River, N. Y.

936

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

Newtown Creek ,

N.Y.

Improving Newtown Creek, New York : For maintenance, twenty

thousand dollars.

Westchester Creek, N.Y.

Improving Westchester Creek, New York: Completing improve-

ment, thirty-two thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.

Arthur Kill, N. Y. and N.J.

Improving Arthur Kill, New York and New Jersey : For mainte-

nance of improvement of Arthur Kill and the waters connecting

Raritan Bay with New York Harbor, including channel between

Staten Island and the New Jersey shore, New York and New Jersey,

ten thousand dollars.

Keyport Harbor, etc., N.J.

Improving Keyport Harbor, Matawan Creek, Raritan and South

Rivers, Shoal Harbor and Compton Creek, and Cheesequake Creek,

New Jersey: For maintenance, thirty thousand five hundred dollars.

Raritan Bay, N.J. Improving Raritan Bay, New Jersey: For maintenance, twenty thousand dollars.

Alloway Creek, N.J. Improving Alloway Creek, New Jersey: For maintenance, five

thousand dollars.

·

Cooper Creek, N.J. Improving Cooper Creek, New Jersey : For maintenance, five thou-

sand dollars.

Mantua Creek, N.J. Improving Mantua Creek, New Jersey: For maintenance, six thousand dollars.
Passaic River, N.J. Improving Passaic River, New Jersey: For maintenance of improve-

ment above the Montclair and Greenwood Lake Railroad bridge, five Provisos. Widening channels. thousand dollars : Provided, That the project for improvement below
said bridge may, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, be so

modified as to allow the widening of the channel of the river at bends

Limit ofcost.

wherever considered desirable in the interest of commerce and navigation: Provided,further, That no additional work shall be done under

this authority which will increase the total cost of the project given

in report submitted in House Document Numbered Four hundred and

forty-one, Fifty-ninth Congress, second session. Raccoon Creek, N.J. Improving Raccoon Creek, New Jersey: For maintenance, five
thousand dollars. Salem River, N.J. Improving Salem River, New Jersey: Completing improvement

and for maintenance, ten thousand six hundred dollars.

Shrewsbury River, N.J.

Improving Shrewsbury River, New Jersey: For maintenance, ten

thousand dollars.

Tuckerton Creek, N: J.

Improving Tuckerton Creek, New Jersey: Completing improve-

ment and for maintenance, twenty-three thousand three hundred

and eighty dollars.

Woodbridge Creek, N. J.

Improving Woodbridge Creek, NewJersey: For maintenance, three

thousand dollars.

Delaware River.

Improving Delaware River, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Dela-

Philadelphia to the

. Bea.

ware: Continuing improvement and for maintenance from Allegheny

Proviso. Contracts.

Avenue, Philadelphia, to the sea, eight hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or

contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to prose-

cute the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate seven hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore

Erie, Pa.

appropriated. Improving harbor at Erie, Pennsylvania: For maintenance, thirty
thousand dollars.

Pittsburg, Pa.
Delaware Bay, Del. Harbor of refuge.
Pier at Lewes, Del.
Wilmington, Del. Proviso. Reexamination .

Improving harbor at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania: For maintenance,

five thousand dollars.

Improving harbor of refuge, Delaware Bay, Delaware : For main-

tenance, eight thousand dollars.

Constructing pier in Delaware Bay near Lewes, Delaware: For

maintenance, one thousand dollars.

J

Improving harbor at Wilmington, Delaware: For restoration and

maintenance, one hundred thousand dollars: Provided, That a reex-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

937 .

amination of the harbor shall be made with a view to determining a
method by which an improvement adequate for the needs of commerce can be maintained at less cost.
Improving Appoquinimink, Murderkill, and Mispillion Rivers, Appoquinimink, Delaware: Continuing improvement and for maintenance in accord- etc., Fivels, Del.
ance with the existing approved projects, fifteen thousand dollars. Improving Broad Creek River, Delaware : For maintenance, two Broad Creek River, Del.
thousand dollars.

Improving Broadkill River, Delaware: For maintenance, ten ,DeBlr.oadkill River, thousand dollars.

Improving Saint Jones River, Delaware: Continuing improvement DeSla.int Jones River, and for maintenance, eleven thousand seven hundred dollars : Pro- Proviso. vided, That no part of said amount shall be expended, except for main- Title to cut-offs, etc. tenance, until a satisfactory title to the land required for the necessary cut-offs shall have been transferred to the United States free of cost and the United States shall have been released from all claims for
damages arising from the proposed diversion of the stream.

Improving Smyrna River, Delaware: Continuing improvement, fifteen thousand dollars: Provided, That no part of said amount shall
be expended until satisfactory title to the land required for the necessary cut-offs shall have been transferred to the United States free of cost.

Smyrna River, Del. TPirtolveistoo. cut-offs, etc.

Improving harbor at Baltimore, Maryland: For maintenance of Baltimore, Md. improvement of harbor of Southwest Baltimore, ten thousand dollars ; for maintenance of improvement of channel of Curtis Bay, Baltimore inMgaicnhtaennnaenlc. e,widenHarbor, five thousand dollars. The unexpended balance of appropriations heretofore made for Patapsco River and channel to Balti-
more is hereby made available for securing increased width of channel at the entrances and in the bends as well as for maintenance.

Improving harbors at Rockhall, Queenstown, Claiborne, and Cam- Chesapeake Bay, bridge, and Chester, Choptank, Warwick, Wicomico, Pocomoke, La Eastern shore harTrappe, and Manokin Rivers, and Tyaskin Creek, Maryland: For bors, etc, maintenance, thirty-three thousand dollars.

Improving Nanticoke River, Delaware and Maryland: For mainte- DeNla.natnidcoMkde. River, nance of improvement of Nanticoke River and completing improvement of Northwest Fork of Nanticoke River (Marshyhope Creek),
Maryland, thirty-six thousand dollars.

Improving Susquehanna River above and below Havre de Grace, SHuasvqrueedheaGnrnaacRei, Mvedr.. Maryland: Completing improvement, thirty-four thousand five hun-
dred dollars.

Improving Anacostia River, District of Columbia: Continuing D.ACn.acostia River, improvement and for maintenance, two hundred thousand dollars.
Improving Potomac River : Continuing improvement and for Potomac River. maintenance at Washington, District of Columbia, sixty thousand Washington, D. C. dollars.

Improving Potomac River at Alexandria, Virginia: Completing Alexandria, Va. improvement, fifty-six thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Milford Haven, Virginia: For maintenance, · Milford Haven, Va. two thousand five hundred dollars.

. Improving harbor at Norfolk, Virginia: For maintenance of im- · NMoarifnotlekn,aVnac.e. provement, including Western Branch of Elizabeth River, five thousand dollars.

Improving Norfolk Harbor and the approaches thereto, and the NeCwhsa,nentecl. to Newport channel to Newport News, Virginia: Continuing improvement, four hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars : Provided, That the PCroonvtirsaoc.ts. Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to prosecute the said project,
to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate six hundred and twenty- two thousand five hundred dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.

938

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

James River, Va. Improving James River, Virginia : Continuing improvement and

Nansemond River, for maintenance, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Va.

Improving Nansemond River, Virginia : For maintenance, three

thousand dollars.

Nomini Creek, Va. Improving Nomini Creek, Virginia : Completing improvement and

for maintenance, eight thousand dollars.

Upper Machodoc

Creek, Va.

Improving Upper Machodoc Creek, Virginia: Completing improve-

ment, thirteen thousand two hundred dollars.

Urbana Creek, Va. Improving Urbana Creek, Virginia: Completing improvement and

for maintenance, ten thousand dollars.
Mattaponi and Pamunkey Rivers, Va. Improving Mattaponi and Pamunkey Rivers, Virginia : Continuing
improvement and for maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

toWAaltbeermwaaryle NSoorufnodlk. Improving waterway from Norfolk Harbor, Virginia, to Albemarle Sound, North Carolina: For maintenance of improvement of inland

water route from Norfolk, Virginia, to Albemarle Sound, North Caro

lina, through Currituck Sound, two thousand dollars.

Beaufort, N. C.

Improving harbor at Beaufort, North Carolina : For maintenance,

five thousand dollars.

Cape Fear River,

N. C.

Improving Cape Fear River at and below Wilmington, North Caro-

Below Wilmington. lina: Continuing improvement to such depth in excess of twenty feet

Proviso. Clearing channel.

as the appropriations for the work may permit, due regard being given to the difference in tidal oscillation at the upper and lower portion of
the improvement, one hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That not exceeding one thousand dollars thereof may be used for clearing to a depth of ten feet the channel or cut between the main channel

of the river and the Carolina beach pier.
N.CoCn.tentnia Creek, Improving Contentnia Creek, North Carolina: For maintenance, one thousand dollars.

Neuse and Trent Rivers, N. C.

Improving Neuse and Trent Rivers, North Carolina : For mainte-

nance, five thousand dollars.

New River, and

waterways to Beau- Improving New River; and waterways to Beaufort, North Carolina:

fort, N. C.

For maintenance of improvement of New River, North Carolina,

including inland waterways between Beaufort Harbor and New River

and between New River and Swansboro, five thousand dollars.

Northeast, etc., Rivers, N. C.

Improving Northeast, Black, and Cape Fear Rivers, North Caro-

lina: For maintenance of improvement of Northeast and Black Rivers

and Cape Fear River above Wilmington, North Carolina, three thou-

`sand five hundred dollars.

Pamlico and Tar Rivers, N. C.

Improving Pamlico and Tar Rivers, North Carolina : For mainte-

nance, five thousand dollars.

Charleston, S. C.

Improving harbor at Charleston, South Carolina: Continuing im-

provement, one hundred thousand dollars.

Winyah Bay, 8. C. Contracts.

Improving Winyah Bay, South Carolina: The Secretary of War is

hereby authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for such mate-

rials and work as may be required for the prosecution of this improve-

ment, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made

by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one hundred thousand dollars,

exclusive of the amounts heretofore appropriated . Mingo Creek, 8. C.

Improving Mingo Creek, South Carolina: For maintenance, one

thousand dollars.

Santee and Congaree Rivers, 8. C.

Improving Santee and Congaree Rivers, South Carolina: For

maintenance of improvement, including the Estherville-Minim Creek

Canal and the Congaree River as far up as the Gervais Street Bridge,

Columbia, forty-seven thousand dollars.

Waterways, Charles-

ton and Alligator Improving waterways between Charleston and Alligator Creek,

Creek , S. C.

South Carolina : Completing improvement of inland waterways

between Charleston Harbor and McClellanville, including branch to

Brunswick, Ga.

Morrisons Landing, forty-one thousand dollars. Improving harbor at Brunswick, Georgia : Continuing improve-

ment and for maintenance, sixty thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

939

Improving Sapelo Harbor, Georgia: Completing improvement, - eleven thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Savannah, Georgia: Continuing improvement, four hundred thousand dollars.

Sapelo, Ga. Savannah, Ga.

Improving Altamaha, Oconee, and Ocmulgee Rivers, Georgia : For riAvelrst,aGma.aha, etc., maintenance, thirty thousand dollars.
Improving Flint River, Georgia: Continuing improvement and for Flint River, Ga. maintenance, seven thousand five hundred dollars."

Improving Savannah River, Georgia : Continuing improvement and GaS.avannah River, for maintenance below Augusta, one hundred thousand dollars.

Improving

Chattahoochee

River,

Georgia

and

Alabama:

Continu-

Chattahoochee River, Ga. and Ala.

ing improvement below Columbus, Georgia, and for maintenance,

seventy-five thousand dollars.

Improving Coosa River, Georgia and Alabama : Continuing AlCao.o.ss River,Ga. and

improvement by the completion of lock and dam at Mayos Bar, near Mayos Bar.
Rome, Georgia, one hundred and twenty-one thousand and thirtynine dollars.

Improving Coosa River, Georgia and Alabama: Continuing Dams, Nos. 4 and 5.

improvement by the construction of a lock in Dam Numbered Four,

and by the construction of Dam Numbered Five, in the State of Alabama, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

The Secretary of War is hereby authorized and empowered· to PoRwaegrlCoamnpdanWya. ter enter into contract with the Ragland Water Power Company, it""s successors or assigns, hereinafter designated " the contracting party, May complete dam,
to complete the dam heretofore partially constructed by the Govern- etc. , at Lock No.4..
ment at Lock Numbered Four on the Coosa River, the work to be

done under his supervision and control, and in accordance with the present adopted project and any modification thereof that he may deem proper: Provided, That the contracting party shall furnish
all materials, of every character, and pay for all labor required in the construction of said dam, which, upon completion, shall

PTroovbiesaorsall expense.

become the property of the United States, free of all costs, claims, or charges of any kind whatsoever: Providedfurther, That the terms terNeasvtisgpartoitoenc,teetdc.., inof this Act and any stipulation which the Secretary of War may deem necessary to safeguard the interests of navigation and other interests of the United States shall be embodied in any contract entered into as aforesaid. The contracting party shall begin the Htioonm, eetc. of construcsaid work within one year from the approval of this Act, and shall complete the same within three years from the date of commencing construction; otherwise the authorization hereby conferred shail be void and the rights hereby conferred shall cease and be determined, the Government reserving the right to commence and finish the work, .if deemed advisable, at any time before it is commenced by the

contracting party; or, if begun and not carried out in strict conformity to the directions of the Secretary of War, the Government
may assume the completion of said work at its option, the cost of such completion to be paid by the contracting party: Provided, That the Secretary of War shall determine from time to time whether
the work is being properly done. In consideration of the completion chWiasetegrranptoewde. franof said dam free of cost to the Government, the contracting party is

hereby granted such rights as the Government possesses to use the water power produced by said dam for manufacturing and other industrial purposes for a period of fifty years: Provided, That the plans for the necessary works and structures to utilize said water

Approval of ple's.

power shall be approved by the Secretary of War: Providedfurther, That the right is reserved to the United States to construct, maintain, tiRoinghptusrpfoorsneasvigfoar. and operate a forebay and lock for navigation purposes in connection served.
with said dam, and nothing shall be done in the use ofthe water from said dam or otherwise to interfere with or in any way impede or retard the operation of said lock or the proper and complete navigation of

940

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

the river at all times, nor in any way to interfere with the use and

control of the same by the United States or the maintenance of the Regulations, etc. water surface above the dam at the established pool level; and the

Secretary of War is hereby authorized to prescribe regulations to

govern the use of the said water power and the operations of the

plant and force employed in connection therewith; and no claim

shall be made against the United States for any failure of water

GoEvlercntmrencturrweonrtktso, power, resulting from any cause whatsoever: Provided further, That

free of cost.

the contracting party shall furnish to the United States, free of cost,

such electric current as may be necessary for operating the Govern-

Easement.

ment lock and lighting its buildings and grounds : And providedfurther, That the contracting party may have ingress and egress over

Bond, etc.

Government lands in the construction and operation of the plant. The Secretary of War may require the contracting party to execute

a bond, with proper securities, before the commencement of the work, in such amount as he may consider necessary, to insure the beginning,

prosecution, and completion of the work and compliance with the

Inspectors, etc.

terms and requirements of this Act, and in case of failure to comply with the requirements of said bond the contracting party shall forfeit to the United States the full amount thereof: Provided, That a suit-

able force of inspectors shall be employed on the work by the Secre-

tary of War, at the expense of the contracting party, to see that the

plans and specifications and the terms and requirements of the Act

Rightto alter, etc. and the conditions of the contract are strictly carried out. Congress

reserves the right to alter, amend or repeal the rights and privileges

hereby conferred, and the United States shall incur no liability

because of the alteration, amendment, or repeal thereof: Provided, taAryutohfoWraitry. of Secre- That to insure compliance with the terms of this contract, or to

protect the interests of navigation and other interests of the United

States, the Secretary of War shall have power, at any time, to order

a suspension of all privileges hereby granted, and a compliance with

such order may be enforced by an injunction of the court of the United States exercising jurisdiction in the district in which the

work is situated, and proper proceedings to this end shall be insti-

tuted by the Attorney General upon request of the Secretary of paJiurreids.diction not im- War. Nothing herein shall be construed as in any way abridging
the exclusive jurisdiction and control by the United States of the

Coosa River, and of any structure therein, or as repealing or modi-

fying any of the provisions or laws now existing for the protection of

daRma,iestci.n, grehqeuigrehdt.at navigation. The contracting party, in consideration of the privileges granted hereby, must, under such regulations as the Secretary of

War may require, obligate and bind itself, its successors or assigns, to raise the height of said dam at Lock Numbered Four three feet,

and shall stop the leaks above Dam Numbered Four by which water

Storage basin.

escapes under such dam, so far as the same can be done, and to keep said leaks stopped so far as it is possible so to do. In consideration

of making said improvements, the said contracting party shall have

Condition.

the right to raise said dam during low water to such a height as may be necessary to give it a storage basin above the dam, in order that

it may develop and operate a water power: Provided, That the said

Overflow damages. storage does not interfere with navigation : Provided further, That

the said contracting party shall pay all damages incurred by reason

Payment forpower. of overflowed lands. Beginning with the year nineteen hundred and

twenty-five, the contracting party shall pay to the United States for

the power due to the natural Howage of the river the sum of one dollar

Additional, for per ten-hour horsepower per year : Provided, That in case the natural

increase from reser-

voirs.

Howage of the river is increased at this point by storage reservoirs

above this point, the power company shall have the right to lease, for a period not exceeding the life of this authorization, the increased

power due to said storage, and shall pay on all power above that due

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. Sess. IIÌ. CH. 166. 1911. C

941

to natural flowage of the river, as increased by local storage at Dam

Numbered Four, the sum of one dollar per year for the first five years, two dollars per year for the second five years, and thereafter

three dollars per year for each ten-hour horsepower sold or used, or

in lieu of above payment may, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, pay its equitable share toward the construction of said reservoir or reservoirs, such share to be determined by the Secretary of War:

Provided, That the Secretary of War, in his discretion, may readjust Readjusting rate.

such rate of compensation at periods of ten years.

Improving waterway between Savannah, Georgia, and Fernandina, vaWnanathe,Graw.,aayn,d FSear--

Florida: For maintenance, thirty thousand dollars.

nandina, Fla.

Improving Apalachicola Bay, Florida: Continuing improvement FlAapalachicola Bay,

and for maintenance, including Link Channel and West Pass, five

thousand dollars.
Channel, ClearImproving channel from Clearwater Harbor through Boca Ceiga water Harbor to

Bay to Tampa Bay, Florida: Completing improvement, twenty-nine Tampa Bay, Fla.

thousand five hundred dollars.

1

Fernandina, Fla.

Improving harbor at Fernandina, Florida : For maintenance,

including the entrance channel through Cumberland Sound, Georgia and Florida, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Improving Hillsboro Bay, Florida: Continuing improvement in Hillsboro Bay, Fla. accordance with the report submitted in House Document Numbered · Six hundred and thirty-four, Sixty-first Congress, second session,

and subject to the conditions recommended by the Chief of Engineers,

United States Army, on page two of said document, three hundred Proviso. thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter Contracts.

into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be

necessary to prosecute the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the

aggregate three hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Key West, Florida: For maintenance of im- Key West, Fla.

provement of the northwest entrance channel, twenty-five thousand

dollars.

Improving harbor at Pensacola, Florida: Continuing improvement Pensacola, Fla.

and for maintenance, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Channel, Apalachi

Improving channel from Apalachicola River to Saint Andrews Bay, cola River, to Saint

Florida: Continuing improvement, one hundred and fifty thousand Andrews Bay, Fla. dollars.

Improving Tampa Bay, Florida: For maintenance, nine thousand Tampa Bay, Fla.

dollars.

Improving Apalachicola River, Florida: Continuing improvement R Rivera , Fla.

and for maintenance, including the cut-off, Lee Slough, lower Chipola'

River, and upper Chipola River from Marianna to its mouth, five

thousand dollars:

Caloosahatchee

Improving Caloosahatchee River, Florida: Completing improve- River, Fla.

ment, sixty-nine thousand dollars.

Improving Holmes River, Florida: For maintenance of improve Holmes River, Fla.

ment from Vernon to the mouth, one thousand dollars.

Improving Saint Johns River, Florida: Continuing improvement FlSaa.int Johns River,

from Jacksonville to the ocean, four hundred and twenty-five thousand

dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a con-

Proviso. Contracts.

tract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary

to prosecute the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may

from time to time be made bylaw, not to exceed in the aggregate five

hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and here-

tofore appropriated ; continuing improvement from Palatka to Lake HaPranleay.tka to Lake Harney, thirty thousand dollars.

Removing the water hyacinth, Florida, Texas, and Louisiana: For FlWa.ater hyacinth, the removal of the water hyacinth from the navigable waters of the Removing.

942

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

State of Florida, so far as it is ormay become an obstruction to navi-

gation, ten thousand dollars. Choctawhatchee River, Fla. and Ala. Improving Choctawhatchee River, Florida and Alabama : For
maintenance of improvement, including Cypress Top outlet, five

thousand dollars.

Escambiaand Cone- Improving Escambia and Conecuh Rivers, Florida and Alabama: cAluah. Rivers, Fla. and For maintenance, five thousand dollars.

Mobile, Ala. Bar.
Harbor.

Improving Mobile bar, Alabama: Continuing improvement and for maintenance, five thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Mobile, Alabama: Continuing improvement,

five hundred and five thousand dollars, of which amount five thousand

dollars may be used in the removal of sunken logs, deadheads, and
other obstructions.
Alabama River, Ala. Improving Alabama River, Alabama: Continuing improvement and

for maintenance, including the Alabama and Coosa Rivers between

Black Warrior, War- Montgomery and Wetumpka, seventy-five thousand dollars.
rior, and Tombigbee Improving Black Warrior, Warrior, and Tombigbee Rivers, AlaRivers, Ala.
bama: Continuing improvement from Mobile to the Mulberry and

Proviso. Contracts.

Locust forks by the construction of locks and dams, one hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into

a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be neces-

sary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may

from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate

seven hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and

heretofore appropriated. Tombigbee River,

Ala, and Miss..

Improving Tombigbee River, Alabama and Mississippi : For mainte

nance, from the_mouth to Demopolis, Alabama, fifteen thousand

Gulfport, Miss.

dollars, and from Demopolis, Alabama, to Walkers Bridge, Mississippi, five thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Gulfport, Mississippi : For maintenance of

improvement of anchorage basin at Gulfport and channel therefrom

to the anchorage or roadstead at Ship Island, and for the improve-

ment and maintenance of channel at Ship Island Pass, one hundred

thousand dollars, of which amount sixty thousand dollars, or so much

Dredge "Barnard." thereof as may be necessary, may be expended for the repair and modification of the United States dredge Barnard, which is hereby

transferred and assigned to Gulfport Harbor and Channel for use and

to be operated in accordance with the provisions and recommenda-

tions contained in the report printed in Rivers and Harbors Commit-

Horn Island Pass, tee Document Numbered Two, Sixtieth Congress, first session.

Miss.

Improving Horn Island Pass, Mississippi: For maintenance, four

thousand dollars. Pearl River, Miss.

Improving Pearl River, Mississippi ; Continuing improvement and

Yazoo River and for maintenance below Rockport, eight thousand dollars.

tributaries, Miss.

Improving Yazoo River and tributaries, Mississippi : Continuing

improvement and for maintenance, including Yazoo, Tallahatchie,

Big Sunflower and Coldwater Rivers, Tchula Lake, Steele and Wash-

Mississippi River. Southwest Pass.

ington Bayous, Lake Washington, and Bear Creek, twelve thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving Southwest Pass, Mississippi River: Continuing improve-

Bayou Teche, La. ment and for maintenance, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Improving Bayou Teche, Louisiana: Continuing improvement

Waterway, Franklin and for maintenance, sixty thousand dollars. and Mermentau, La. Inland waterway between Franklin and Mermentau, Louisiana:
To insure the selection of the most suitable route for the inland

Vol. 34, p. 1089.

waterway channel from Franklin to Mermentau adopted by Congress in the river and harbor act of March second, nineteen hundred

Changes.

and seven, the Secretary of War is hereby authorized, on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, to make such changes in

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

943

the location of said channel as may be considered desirable: Pro- Proviso.

vided, That no change shall be made under this authorization unless Right of way. the necessary right of way is secured to the United States free of cost.
Removing the water hyacinth, Florida, Texas, and Louisiana: LaW.aatnderTexh.yacinth, For the removal of the water hyacinth from the navigable waters Removing. in the States of Louisiana and Texas, so far as it is or may become an obstruction to navigation, twenty thousand dollars.

Improving Red River, Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas, and Okla- TeRxe.d, aRnidveOr,kLlaa..,Ark., homa: Continuing improvement and for maintenance below Fulton,

Arkansas, twenty thousand dollars : continuing improvement and for maintenance between Fulton, Arkansas, and Denison, Texas,

twenty-five thousand dollars.

Improving Aransas Pass, Texas: For maintenance, twenty-five Aransas Pass, Tex. thousand dollars.

For the construction of a deep-water harbor or port within the entrance to Aransas Pass, at Harbor Island, Texas, in accordance with the report submitted in House Document Numbered One thousand and ninety-four, Sixty-first Congress, third session, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said project,

HDaerebp-owraItselrapnodr, tT.ex. PCroonvtirsaoc.ts.

to be paid for as appropriations may fromtime to time be made by law not to exceed in the aggregate two hundred and fifty thousand dollars exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated:

Provided further, That no part of the amount herein appropriated olNyo, ettec.rminal monopor authorized to be appropriated shall be expended until the Secre-

tary of War shall be satisfied that the interests of the general public

are duly protected in the use of said harbor and that no terminal
monopoly will be possible: And provided further, That the title or easements in any land needed in connection with the construction

Easements.

of the dike proposed as a part of this improvement shall be vested in the United States free of cost.

Improving Galveston Channel, Texas : Continuing improvement TeGxal. veston Channel, under the existing project, which contemplates the excavation of

a channel thirty feet deep and one thousand two hundred feet wide

from the inner bar to Fifty-first Street and seven hundred feet wide
from Fifty-first to Fifty-sixth Street, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That at such time as in the discretion " PErxotveinssoi.on of chanof the Secretary of War the same may be required in the interests ne
of navigation and commerce the western terminus of said channel ,

may be extended to Fifty-seventh Street, with a width of one thousand feet between Fifty-first and Fifty-seventh Streets, as
recommended in the report submitted in House Document Num-
bered Three hundred and twenty-eight, Sixty-first Congress, second session.
Improving harbor at Galveston, Texas: For maintenance, · by
dredging and repair of the jetties, one hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars.

Galveston, Tex

Improving channel from Galveston Harbor to Texas City, Texas: CiCthy,anTneexl. to Texas Continuing improvement and for maintenance by dredging within the
limits recommended in the report submitted in House Document Numbered Three hundred and twenty-eight, Sixty-first Congress, second session, fifty thousand dollars.
Sabine-Neches CaImproving the Sabine-Neches Canal, Texas, from the Port Arthur al, Tex. Ship Canal to the mouth of the Sabine River, the Neches River up to
the town of Beaumont, and the Sabine River up to the town ofOrange, Ante, p. 643. to a navigable depth of twenty-five feet, in accordance with plan numbered four, submitted in House Document Numbered One thousand
two hundred and ninety, Sixty-first Congress, third session, as follows :
For sections "a" and " c," from Port Arthur Ship Canal to mouthsShFirpomCaPnoarlt tAortthhuer of Neches River and from mouth of Neches River to Beaumont, one mNeocnhte. s, and to Beauhundred and fifty thousand dollars ; and the Secretary of War may

944

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911 .

Contracts.

enter into contract or contracts for such materials and work as may

be necessary to complete said sections to an amount not exceeding seven hundred and six thousand dollars, exclusive of the amount

herein appropriated, of which amount not exceeding two hundred and

seventy- eight thousand dollars shall be paid from appropriations to be

Proviso.

hereafter made by law and the remainder from funds contributed by

loCcaolnitntreirbesutts.ion by the Beaumont, navigation district or other local interests : Provided, That no part of these amounts shall be expended and no contract shall

be entered into until the Beaumont navigation district, a local organ-

ization created and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the

State of Texas, or other local interests, shall have placed in some

United States depository, to be selected by the Secretary of War, the sum of four hundred and twenty-eight thousand dollars to the credit

of the Secretary of War, to be expended by him in equal amounts with

moneys provided by the United States in prosecuting this work: trMeaeionftceonsta.nce, etc., Provided further, That said Beaumont navigation district or other
local interests shall become bound, in manner satisfactory to the

Secretary of War, to maintain said channel free of cost to the United

States for a term of three years after the completion thereof, and to

provide for the operation and maintenance of the guard lock without

cost to the United States until otherwise provided by law, all in accordance with the recommendations in the report cited above:

Commencing work. Provided further, That the Secretary of War may enter into contract for work on sections "a" and "c" at any time after the local interests

have provided the moneys as above specified, independent of and

without reference to section "b."

From Sabine River,

to Orange.

For section "b," fifty thousand dollars ; and the Secretary of War

Contracts.

may enter into contract or contracts for such materials and work as

may be necessary to complete said section, to an amount not exceed-

ing two hundred and thirty-seven thousand dollars, exclusive of the

amount herein appropriated, of which amount not exceeding ninetythree thousand five hundred dollars shall be paid from appropriations

to be hereafter made by law, and the remainder from funds con-

tributed by the Orange navigation district or other local interests :

Provisos. Contribution by

Provided,

That

no

part

of

these

amounts

shall

be

expended

and

no

local interests.

contract shall be entered into until the Orange navigation district or

other local interests shall have placed in some United States depository, to be selected by the Secretary of War, the sum of one hundred

and forty-three thousand five hundred dollars to the credit of the

Secretary of War, to be expended by him in equal amounts with moneys provided by the United States in prosecuting this work:

freMeaiofntceosnta.nce, etc., Provided further, That said Orange navigation district or other local interests shall become bound, in manner satisfactory to the Secretary
of War, to maintain said channel free of cost to the United States for

Port Bolivar, Tex.

a term of three years, all in accordance with the recommendations in the report cited above.
Improving channel to Port Bolivar, Texas : For maintenance, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Sabine Pass, Tex. Improving Sabine Pass, Texas : Continuing improvement and for

maintenance, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

West Galveston Bay Channel, etc., Tex.

Improving West Galveston Bay Channel, Turtle Bayou, Trinity

River, Anahuac Channel, Oyster Creek, Cedar, Chocolate, and Bastrop

Bayous, Texas : Continuingimprovement and for maintenance, includ-

ing mouths of adjacent streams, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Brazos River, Tex. At the mouth.

Improving mouth of Brazos River, Texas: Continuing improve-

ment and maintenance by dredging and repair of the jetties, one hun-

dred thousand dollars.

inVgetloans.cotoOld Wash · Improving Brazos River, Texas: Continuing improvement and for maintenance by open-channel work from Velasco to Old Washington,

twenty-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

945

Improving Brazos River, Texas, from Old Washington to Waco: WaOlcdo.Washington to For the completion of lock and dam at Hidalgo Falls, fifty thousand dollars.
Improving Trinity River, Texas: Continuing improvement and for Trinity River,Tex. maintenance by open-channel work, forty thousand dollars.
Improving Cypress Bayou, Texas and Louisiana: For maintenance, aCnydpLrae.ssBayou, Tex. two thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving Ouachita River, Arkansas and Louisiana: Continuing anOduaLcah.itaRiver,Ark. improvement by the construction of Locks and Dams Numbered Two, Four, Six, and Eight, two hundred and ninety-two thousand dollars: Proviso. Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or Contracts. contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to complete
the said locks and dams, to be paid for as appropriations may from.
time to time be made bylaw, not to exceed inthe aggregate two hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore
appropriated. Improving Ouachita River, Arkansas and Louisiana: Continuing Removingsnags, etc.
improvement by removing snags, leaning trees, and other obstructions between Camden and Arkadelphia, in the State of Arkansas, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving Arkansas River, Arkansas : For maintenance of improve- APriknaensBalusfRf,iAverrk.. ment, including works at Pine Bluff and the operation of dredging plant, sixty-two thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving Black and Current Rivers, Arkansas and Missouri : For RiBvlearcs,kAarnkd. aCnudrMroe.nt maintenance, seven thousand one hundred dollars.
Improving Cache River, Arkansas : For maintenance, three thou- Cache River, Ark. sand dollars.
Improving Saint Francis River, Arkansas : For maintenance of SaintFrancis River, improvement of Saint Francis and L'Anguille Rivers, and Blackfish etc.,Ark.
Bayou, two thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving White River, Arkansas: For maintenance, eighteen White River, Ark. thousand dollars.
Improving Cumberland River above . Nashville, Tennessee : Com- abCouvmebeNrlaasnhdviRlilveer, pleting improvement for slack-water navigation between Lock and Tenn. Dam Numbered Three, near Nashville, and Lock and Dam Numbered Seven, near Carthage, Tennessee, eighty-five thousand dollars.
Improving Tennessee River above Chattanooga, Tennessee: Con- abToevnenesCsheaettaRniovoegar, tinuing improvement and formaintenance, sixty-five thousand dollars. Tenn.
Improving Tennessee River below Chattanooga, Tennessee, Ala- BelowChattanooga.
bama, and Kentucky: Continuing improvement and for maintenance
by open-channel work from Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Riverton,
Alabama, one hundred thousand dollars; continuing improvement and for maintenance below Riverton, Alabama, eighty thousand dollars.
Improving Kentucky River, Kentucky: Continuing improvement Loocnks anddeDrams bythe construction ofLocks and Dams Numbered Thirteen and Four- NoPsr.o1v3isaon. d 14. teen, one hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said locks and dams, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate two hundred and fifty thousand six hundred and fifty dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Ashtabula,. Ohio : The Secretary of War is ACsohnttraabcutlsa. , Ohio. hereby authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work asmay be necessary for the prosecution of this improvement, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time bemade by law, not to exceed in the aggregate four hundred and seventy-four thousand six hundred and seventy-five dollars, exclusive of the amounts heretofore appropriated.

946

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911 .

Conneaut, Ohio.
Proviso. Contracts.

Improving harbor at Conneaut, Ohio: Continuing improvement, one hundred and sixty thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary
of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and

work as may be necessary to prosecute the said project, to be paid

Lorain , Ohio.
Toledo, Ohio.
Ohio River. Locks and dams. Proviso. Contracts.

for as appropriations may fromtime to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one hundred and twenty thousand seven hundred and thirty-eight dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Lorain, Ohio: For maintenance, five thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Toledo, Ohio : Continuing improvement, seventy-five thousand dollars.
Improving Ohio River: Continuing improvment by the construction of locks and dams with a veiw to securing a navigable depth of
nine feet, two million dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to prosecute the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed

in the aggregate three million dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein

and heretofore appropriated. Open-channel work.
Improving Ohio River: Continuing improvement and for main-

Alpena, Mich. Arcadia, Mich.

tenance by open-channel work, two hundred and twenty-nine thousand five hundred dollars.
Improving harbor at Alpena, Michigan: For maintenance, ten thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Arcadia, Michigan: For dredging and maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

Frankfort, Mich.

Improving harbor at Frankfort, Michigan: For maintenance, ten

thousand dollars.

Grand Haven, Mich. Improving harbor at Grand Haven, Michigan: For maintenance,

thirty-four thousand dollars. Grand Marais, Mich. Harbor of refuge at Grand Marais, Michigan : For maintenance, ten

thousand dollars.

Holland, Mich.

Improving inner and outer harbor at Holland, Michigan: For

Ludington, Mich.

maintenance, sixteen thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Ludington, Michigan: For maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

MiMcahc.kinac Harbor, Improving Mackinac Harbor, Michigan: The Secretary of War is

Contracts.

hereby authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for such

materials and work as may be required for the completion of this

improvement, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time

Manistee, Mich.
Manistique, Mich.
Marquette, Mich. Harbor of refuge. Harbor. Proviso. Contracts.

be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate fifty-five thousand dollars, exclusive of the amount heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Manistee, Michigan: Completing improvement and for maintenance, ten thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Manistique, Michigan: Completing improvement, one hundred and thirty- eight thousand four hundred and sixty-two dollars.
Harbor of refuge at Marquette Bay, Michigan : For maintenance, two thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Marquette, Michigan : Continuing improvement and for maintenance, eighty-eight thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such

Muskegon, Mich.

materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate three hundred and eleven thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Muskegon, Michigan: For maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

947

Improving harbor at Saugatuck, and Kalamazoo River, Michigan: amSaauzgoaotRuicvke,ra,nMdicKahl.Completing improvement and for maintenance, thirty thousand dollars.
Improving South Haven Harbor, Michigan: The Secretary of War SCoonuttrhacHtasy. en, Mich. is hereby authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary for the completion of this improvement, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be
made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one hundred and ninetyeight thousand dollars, exclusive of amounts heretofore appropriated.
Improving Black River at Port Huron, Michigan: For mainte- Black River,Mich. nance, five thousand dollars.

Improving Clinton River, Michigan : For maintenance, two thou- ClintonRiver,Mich. sand dollars.

Improving Detroit River, Michigan: Continuing improvement in DetroitRiver, Mich.

accordance with plan A, three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.

Improving Rouge River, Michigan: For maintenance, five thou- Rouge River, Mich.

sand dollars: Provided, That no part of this sum shall be expended at

Proviso. Protection, by ripa-

those points within the limits of the project where shoaling is due to rian interests.

caving banks until the banks shall have been protected by suitable

docks or revetments constructed at the expense of the riparian

interests.

Improving harbor at Ashland, Wisconsin : Continuing improvement and for maintenance, thirty thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Kenosha, Wisconsin: For maintenance, eleven thousand dollars.

Ashland, Wis. Kenosha, Wis.

Improving harbor at Kewaunee, Wisconsin: For maintenance, Kewaunee,Wis.
eighteen thousand dollars. Improving harbor at Port Wing, Wisconsin: Continuing improve- Port Wing,Wis.
ment and for maintenance, three thousand dollars. Croix River,
Improving Saint Croix River, Wisconsin and Minesota: For main- want tenance, three thousand six hundred dollars.
Improving harbor at Agate Bay, Minnesota: For maintenance, two Agate Bay, Minn. thousand dollars.

Improving Zippel Bay, Lake of the Woods, Minnesota : Completing ZiLpapekleBoafyt, MheinWno.ods, improvement in accordance with the report submitted in House Document Numbered Twelve hundred and seventy-six, Sixty-first

Congress, third session, twenty-seven thousand seven hundred and eighty-one dollars.

Improving Minnes.ota River, Minnesota: For maintenance, two MiMninntnesota River,

thousand dollars.

Red River of the

Improving Red River of the North, Minnesota and North Dakota : North, Minn. and N.

For maintenance, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Dak.

Improving harbor at Michigan City, Indiana: For maintenance, in- Michigan City, Ind.

cluding repair and maintenance of the east breakwater, twenty-three thousand dollars.
Improving Calumet River, Illinois and Indiana: For maintenance, anCdailunmd.et River, Ill. ten thousand dollars.

Improving harbor at Chicago, Illinois: The Secretary of War is hereby authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be required for the prosecution and maintenance of this improvement, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate two hundred and forty thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Waukegan, Illinois: For maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

Chicago, Ill. Contracts.
Waukegan, Ill.

Improving Chicago River, Illinois : For maintenance, thirty-four Chicago River, IIL thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into Proviso. a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be neces- Contracts.

948

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911 .

sary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may

from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one

hundred and forty-two thousand six hundred dollars, exclusive of the

amounts herein and heretofore appropriated .

Illinois and Mississippi Canal.

Improving Illinois and Mississippi Canal by raising Aqueduct One,

Lock Four, one highway bridge and approaches and the banks of the

canal where the canal crosses East Bureau Creek, just below the Chi-

cago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway bridge across the same stream,

one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Mississippi River Commission.

Improving Mississippi River from Head of Passes to the mouth of

Mississippi River. the From Head ofPasses

Ohio

River,

including

salaries ,

clerical,

office,

traveling,

and

mis-

to the Ohio.

cellaneous expenses of the Mississippi River Commission : Continuing

chSaennceulr. ing foot improvement, with a view to securing a permanent channel depth of

nine feet, three million dollars, which sum shall be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War in accordance with the plans,

specifications, and recommendations of the Mississippi River Com-

Levees.

mission, as approved by the Chief of Engineers, for the general improvement of the river, for the building of levees between the Head

Surveys.

of Passes and Cape Girardeau, Missouri, and for surveys, including the

survey from the Head of Passes to the headwaters of the river, in such

Provisos. Dredge boats, etc.

manner as in their opinion shall best improve navigation and promote the interests of commerce at all stages of the river: Provided, That of the money hereby appropriated so much as may be necessary shall be

expended in the construction of suitable and necessary dredge boats

and other devices and appliances and in the maintenance and operacoCuornsense.cting water tion of the same: Provided further, That the water courses connected
with said river and the harbors upon it, now under the control of

the Mississippi River Commission and under improvement, may, in

the discretion of said commission, upon approval by the Chief of

Engineers, receive allotments for improvements now under way or

hereafter to be undertaken, to be paid for from the amounts herein

appropriated.

From the Ohio to the Missouri.

Improving Mississippi River from the mouth of the Ohio River to

and including the mouth of the Missouri River: Continuing improve-

ment and for maintenance, one million dollars. From the Missouri Improving Mississippi River from the mouth of the Missouri River to Minneapolis.

Proviso. Dredging, etc.

to Minneapolis, Minnesota: Continuing improvement and for maintenance, one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That of this amount so much as shall be necessary, not to

exceed seventy-five thousand dollars, may, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, be expended for the repair and maintenance of existing levees constructed by the United States and for dredging

for the benefit of through navigation in harbors and at landing places, giving preference to localities in which the communities interested

shall hereafter maintain such dredging without cost to the United States.

Saint Paul, Minn. The Secretary of War is hereby authorized to permit such changes linCehsa.nges of harbor of harbor lines and diversion of the channel of the Mississippi River

at Saint Paul, Minnesota, as may be necessary to provide for the

improvement of navigation, for suitable levees, transportation termi-

nals, and landing places for shipping in said city.

Approval by Secretary ofWar, etc.

Such changes and diversion shall be shown by plans and plats to be

prepared by the city of Saint Paul, which shall be filed with and

Provisos. Estimates, etc.

approved by the Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers before any work shall be done thereon, and any change therefrom shall be unlawful unless a plan and plat thereof shall have been previously filed with and approved by the Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers: Provided, That the Secretary of War and the Chief of
Engineers shall submit to Congress an estimate of the amount, character, and cost of any work deemed proper to be done by the United

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

949

States in connection with the improvement herein authorized, the

expense connected with the preparation of such estimate to be paid

from the appropriation for examinations, surveys, and contingen

cies

of

rivers

and

harbors :

Provided further,

That

neither

this

Further action Act Congress required.

of

nor any action taken thereunder by the Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers shall be construed as in any way committing the

United States to any expense or obligation without further direction
of Congress. Ownership of levees,
As a condition thereof it shall be agreed by the said city of Saint etc.

Paul as a part of said proposed plan that the said levees and landing places for shipping shall remain under the ownership or control of the said municipality unless otherwise authorized by Congress.
Improving Mississippi River from Saint Paul to Minneapolis, MiFnrneoampoSlaisn.t Paul to Minnesota: Continuing improvement, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Reservoirs at headwaters of Mississippi River: Completing con- biCgaonshails,hLatkoe WLienencih-

struction of canal between Lake Winnibigoshish and Leech Lake, Lake. ten thousand dollars.
Improving Missouri River, with a view to securing a permanent MKiasnssoausriCiRtiyv,eMro.. , to

six-foot channel between Kansas City and the mouth of the river: moSuitx-hf.oot channel. The Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such Contracts.
materials and work as may be necessary to prosecute the improve-

ment, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate six hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts heretofore appropriated.

Improving Gasconade River, Missouri : Continuing improvement Gasconade River, and for maintenance, ten thousand dollars.

Improving Osage River, Missouri: Continuing improvement and Osage River, Mo.
for maintenance, fifteen thousand dollars. · Improving harbor at Humboldt Bay, California: For maintenance HCuhamnbnoelldattBEauyr,eCkaal,.

ofimprovement of the channel in front of Eureka, fifteen thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Humboldt Bay, California : Continuing improvement, one hundred and seventy thousand dollars : Provided,

Harbor.
Proviso. Contracts.

That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for . · such materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said

project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate seven hundred and seyenteen thousand four hundred dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving Los Angeles Harbor, California : Continuing improvement by dredging, two hundred and seventy thousand dollars: Provided, That if in the judgment of the Secretary of War the prices received in response to advertisement for bids for dredging are not reasonable, so much of the amount herein appropriated as shall be necessary may be expended for the purchase or construction of a suitable dredging plant.
Improvingharborat Oakland, California: Continuing improvement, one hundredand fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That if in the judgment of the Secretary ofWar the prices received in response to adver-

Los Angeles, Cal. Proviso. Dredging plant.
Oakland,Cal. Proviso. Dredging plant.

tisement for bids for dredging are not reasonable, so much of the amount herein appropriated as shall be necessary may be expended

for the purchase or construction of a suitable dredging plant. Improving channel over Pinole Shoal, San Pablo Bay, California, CShaannPnaebllooveBraFyi,nCoalle.

in accordance with the report submitted in House Document Num- Shoal bered Eleven hundred and three, Sixtieth Congress, second session,

including the construction of a dredge for maintenance, four hundred Proviso. thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter Contracts.

into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate

88740°-vol 36, PT 1--11--62

950

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911 .

three hundred and sixty thousand dollars, exclusive of the amount

herein appropriated.

Mokelumne River, Cal.

Improving Mokelumne River, California: For maintenance, five

thousand dollars.

Petaluma Creekand

Napa River.

Improving Petaluma Creek and Napa River, California: For main-

tenance, eleven thousand dollars. Sacramento and

Feather Rivers, Cal. Improving Sacramento and Feather Rivers, California : Continuing

improvement and for maintenance, twenty-five thousand dollars.

San Joaquin River,

Cal.

Improving San Joaquin River, California: For maintenance,

Coos Bay, Oreg.

including Stockton and Mormon Channels, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Coos Bay, Oregon: Continuing improvement

at the entrance and in the channels within the bay, and for mainte-

nance, forty thousand dollars.

Tillamook Bay,

Oreg.

Improving Tillamook Bay and Bar, Oregon : For maintenance, five

thousand dollars.

Willamette and Yamhill Rivers, Oreg. Improving Willamette and Yamhill Rivers, Oregon: For mainte-

nance of improvement of Willamette River above Portland, and

Yamhill River, twenty thousand dollars.

Columbia and Wil-

lamette Rivers, below Improving Columbia and Lower Willamette Rivers below Port-

Portland. Proviso.

land, Oregon : Continuing improvement and for maintenance, three

Contracts, etc. hundred and fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of

War may enter into contract or contracts for such materials and work

as may be necessary for the construction of two suitable dredging plants, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be

made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate three hundred and

twenty thousand dollars exclusive of the amounts herein and hereto-

Columbia River, fore appropriated.

Oreg. and Wash.

Improving mouth of Columbia River, Oregon and Washington:

At the mouth. Continuing improvement and for maintenance, including repairs and

Gauging.

operation of dredge, nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars . For gauging waters of Columbia River and measuring tidal and

river volumes, one thousand dollars.

Ante, p. 663, amend-

ed .

The provision of the river and harbor Act approved June twenty-

fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, making appropriation for improving

Siuslaw River, Oregon, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Siuslaw River, Oreg.

Improvement atthe "Improving Siuslaw River, Oregon, at the mouth, in accordance

mouth.

with the project set forth in the report submitted in House Document

Provisos, Contracts.

Numbered six hundred and forty- eight, Sixty-first Congress, second session, fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such material and work as

may be necessary to complete said project and to maintain the same

for one year during construction, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate one

hundred and sixty-five thousand five hundred dollars, exclusive of

SiCusolnatwr. ibution by the amount herein appropriated : Provided further, That before begin-

ning said work or making said contract or contracts the Secretary of

War shall be satisfied, by deposit or otherwise, that the port of

Siuslaw or other agency shall provide for the accomplishment of said

project the additional sum of two hundred and fifteen thousand five

hundred dollars, which said sum shall be expended by the Secretary

of War in the prosecution of said work and for its maintenance in the

same manner and in equal amount as the sum herein appropriated

Construction of and authorized to be appropriated from the Treasury of the United
sloauwt.h jetty by Sius. States : And provided further, That the port of Siuslaw may proceed with the construction of the south jetty in pursuance of the contract
Amount to be de- with Robert Wakefield, entered into December twenty-fourth, nineducted from contri- teen hundred and nine, to the full extent of said contract; and the bution.
amount to be furnished by the said port of Siuslaw, or other agency,

as aforesaid, may be reduced by such amounts, not exceeding one

hundred thousand dollars, as may be expended under said contract,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

951

provided all the work so done shall be in accord with the project herein adopted and satisfactory to the Secretary of War."

Improving Columbia River, Washington: For maintenance of im- FCorloummtbhieaWiRlilvaemr.ette

provement between the mouth of Willamette River and the city of to Vancouver,Wash.

Vancouver, Washington, three thousand dollars.
The Dalles Rapids Improving Columbia River between the foot of The Dalles Rapids toCello Falls.

and the head of Celilo Falls, Oregon and Washington: Continuing

improvement, six hundred thousand dollars.

Improving Columbia

River

and

tributaries

above

Celilo

Falls

to the

CeliloFallstoSnake River.

mouth of Snake River, Oregon and Washington: Continuing improve-

ment, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Improving Snake River, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho: Continu- Snake River,Oreg., ing improvement and for maintenance up to Pittsburg Landing, Ore- Wash. , and Idaho.
gon, fifteen thousand dollars.

Improving harbor at Bellingham, Washington: Continuing im- Bellingham, Wash. provement, in accordance with the report submitted in House Docu-

ment Numbered Eleven hundred and sixty-one, Sixtieth Congress,

second session, and subject to the conditions relative to cooperation ,inCtoeorepsetrsa. tionbylocal
on the part of local interests as set forth in said document, twenty-five
thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into Proviso. Contracts.
a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may be neces-

sary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations

may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate

fifty-two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, exclusive of the

amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.

Improving Grays Harbor and Bar Entrance, Washington: Continuing improvement by means of extension of north jetty, three hundred thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may
enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may

Grays Harbor,Wash. PCroonvtirsaoc.ts.

be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appro-

priations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the

aggregate six hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars, exclusive of the

amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.

Improving harbor at Olympia, Washington: Completing improve- olympia, Wash. ment in accordance with the report of the Board of Engineers for

Rivers and Harbors, dated March ninth, nineteen hundred and eight,

and printed in Rivers and Harbors Committee Document Numbered

Five, Sixty-first Congress, second session, and subject to the condi- inCtoeorpesetrsa.tion bylocal tions relative to cooperation on the part of local interests as set forth

in said document, forty-three thousand dollars.

Improving Willapa River and Harbor, Washington: Continuing HaWriblolra,pWaasRihv.er and improvement in accordance with the report submitted in House Document Numbered. Five hundred and twenty-four, Sixty-first

Congress, second session, and subject to the conditions relative to interests.
cooperation on the part of local interests, as set forth in said document, Proviso.
fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War may Contracts.
enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and work as may

be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to exceed in the

aggregate one hundred and eighteen thousand one hundred and thirty-two dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore

appropriated.

Improving Chehalis River, Washington: Completing improvement", WaCshhe.halis River, ten thousand dollars.

Improving Cowlitz and Lewis Rivers, Washington: For main- RiCvoewrlsi,tWzasahn:d Lewis tenance, including North Fork of Lewis River, two thousand five hundred dollars.

Improving Grays River, Washington: For maintenance, five hun- Grays River,Wash. dred dollars.

952

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911 .

WaPsuhge. t Sound, etc., Improving Puget Sound, Washington: Continuing improvement

and for maintenance of Puget Sound and its tributary waters, twenty

thousand dollars.

Snohomish River,

Wash.

Improving Snohomish River, Washington : Continuing improve-

Proviso. Contracts.

ment, seventy-five thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of

War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and

work as may be necessary to complete the said project, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to

Hilo, Hawaii,
Provisos. Contracts.

exceed in the aggregate one hundred and eighty thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated.
Improving harbor at Hilo, Hawaii : Continuing improvement, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such materials and

work as may be necessary to prosecute the said project, to be paid

for as appropriations may from time to time be made by law, not to

Resurvey ized.

exceed in the aggregate two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, exclusive of the amounts herein and heretofore appropriated: Proauthor- vided further, That the Secretary of War be authorized to have a resurvey made of Hilo Harbor with a view to determining whether

a modification of the adopted project can be made which will increase

the commercial facilities of the harbor without increasing the original

limit of cost of the work.

Kahului Harbor,

Hawaii.

Improving Kahului Harbor, Hawaii : Continuing improvement, one

hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Depth of waters de-

fined.

The depth of water in tidal waters, as well as in rivers and nontidal

channels, whenever referred to in this Act shall be understood to

Maintenance, etc., mean the depth at mean low water unless otherwise expressed.

of existing works.

Appropriations made for the respective works herein named, or so

much thereof as may be necessary, may, in the discretion of the Sec-

retary of War, be used for maintenance and for the repair and restora-

tion of said works whenever from any cause they have become seri-

ously impaired, as well as for the further improvement of said works.

Surveys, etc., paid fromamount forproj-

Surveys and examinations provided for in this section shall, unless

ect.

otherwise expressed, be paid for from the appropriations made for the

respective improvements or projects to which they pertain or in con-

nection with which they are mentioned.

Works by contract or otherwise.

All works of improvement herein or hereafter authorized to be

prosecuted or completed under contracts may, in the discretion of the

Secretary of War, be carried on by contract or otherwise, as may be

Allotment of con- most economical or advantageous to the United States.

solidated works.

Where separate works or items are consolidated in this Act and an

aggregate amount is appropriated therefor, the amounts herein appropriated shall, unless otherwise expressed , be expended in securing maintenance and improvement according to the respective projects

herein or heretofore adopted by Congress, after giving due regard to the respective needs of traffic . The allotments to the respective works herein consolidated shall be made by the Secretary of War upon recommendations by the Chief of Engineers. In case such works or items are consolidated and separate amounts are given with each

project, the amounts so named shall be expended upon such separate

projects unless, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, another

auBtahloarniczesd cwaorrrkise.d to allotment or division should be made ofthe same. Any balances now

remaining to the credit of the consolidated items in this Act shall be

carried to the credit of the respective aggregate amounts appropriated

Classificationoftraf- for the consolidated items herein contained.

fic statistics.

In the collection of statistics relating to traffic, the Corps of Engi-

neers is directed to adopt a uniform system of classification for

freight, and upon rivers or inland waterways to collate ton-mileage statistics as far as practicable.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

953-

SEO. 2.

That

for

examinations,

surveys,

and

contingencies

for for exAapmpirnoaptriioantsi,oentc.

rivers and harbors for which there may be no special appropriation,

the sum of three hundred thousand dollars is hereby appropriated: Provisos. Provided, That no preliminary examination, survey, project, or esti- Authority required.

mate for new works other than those designated in this or some prior

Act or joint resolution shall be made : Providedfurther, That after the poSrutspprelsetmreicntteadr. y re-

regular or formal reports made as required by law on any examination, survey, project, of work under way or proposed are submitted no

supplemental or additional report or estimate shall be made unless

ordered by a concurrent resolution of Congress: And providedfurther,

That the Government shall not be deemed to have entered upon any beSgpienciwaolrakutrheoqruiitryetdo. project for the improvement of any waterway or harbor mentioned

in this Act until funds for the commencement of the proposed work

shall have been actually appropriated by law. The Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed to cause Allotment of preliminary examina-
preliminary examinations and surveys to be made at the following- tions.

named localities, and a sufficient sum to pay the cost thereof may be_allotted from the amount appropriated in this section :
Rockland Harbor, Maine, at and near Atlantic Point. Kennebec River, channel west of Swan Island, Maine.

Maine.

Bluehill Inner Harbor, Maine.

· Winter Harbor, Maine.

Carvers Harbor, Vinalhaven, Maine.

Boston Harbor, Massachusetts, with a view to the construction of Massachusetts. a sea wall along Winthrop Beach.
Cohasset Harbor, Massachusetts, with a view to the construction

of a channel one hundred and fifty feet in width and eight feet in depth.

Providence River and Harbor, Rhode Island, with a view to deepening the channel to thirty feet.
Mystic River, Connecticut, from the drawbridge between Groton and Stonington to the head of navigation.
Hudson River, New York, with a view to increasing the width of

Rhode Island. Connecticut. New York.

the channel between the Albany and Greenbush bridge and the New
York Central and Hudson River Railroad passenger bridge. ·
Hudson River, New York, with a view to securing a suitable depth

along the front of Rensselaer between the lower and middle bridges. New York Harbor, New York, with a view to securing a suitable
depth of channel to the navy yard.

For a deep-water connection with suitable terminals that may be established, at North Tonawanda at the head of the New York State Barge Canal.

Fort Pond Bay, Suffolk County, New York. New York Harbor, New York, with a view to securing increased

width and depth of water from a point at or near Southwest Spit, northwest of Sandy Hook, New Jersey, through Lower New York Bay, Raritan Bay, and the channel between New Jersey and Staten Island, New York, to the channel in Upper New York Bay.

Niagara River, New York, with a view to securing a depth of fourteen feet in the channel between Navy and Grand Islands leading to the foot of Sugar Street, in the city of Niagara Falls.
Delaware River, at Morrisville, Pennsylvania.

Pennsylvania.

Allegheny River, Pennsylvania, with a view to the construction of additional locks and dams.
Leipsic River, Delaware. Appoquinimink River, Delaware. Mispillion River, Delaware. Murderkill River, Delaware. Little River, Delaware. Elk River and Little Elk River, Maryland.

Delaware. Maryland.

954

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 166. 1911.

Virginia. North Carolina.
South Carolina. Georgia. Florida.

Channel connecting Miles River and Tred Avon River near Royal Oak, Maryland.
Susquehanna River, Maryland. Manokin River, Maryland. Harbor at Newport News, Virginia, and waters near, in, and about the city of Newport News, with a view to securing increased anchorage area for small craft. Cape Charles City Harbor, Virginia, with a view to straightening -the north side of channel at the entrance and increasing the width of the channel to two hundred feet. Western Branch of Elizabeth River, Virginia, with a view to deepening and widening the approach thereto. Potomac River, at Colonial Beach, Virginia, with a viewto a proper approach to the landing place. Pamlico River, North Carolina, with a view to improving the inner channel on the north side of that river, and with a further view of removing any excavated material which may have heretofore been placed therein by the War Department, beginning at the mouth of Runyons Creek, on the north side of said river, below Washington, North Carolina, and extending eastwardly down said river as far as may be necessary.
Northeast Cape Fear River, North Carolina, from its mouth to Hallsville.
Chowan River, North Carolina. Conoby Creek, North Carolina.
Deep Creek, North Carolina, from its mouth on Albemarle Sound to the head of navigation.
South River, North Carolina, with a view to obtaining increased depth above Aurora.
Swift Creek, Craven County, North Carolina, with a view to dredging a channel through Horse Shoe Bend and Poplar Branch.
Basin of Winyah Bay, South Carolina, with a view to providing a uniform depth of eighteen feet at mean low water and to giving increased harbor facilities to the city of Georgetown.
Darien Harbor and Doboy Bar, Georgia, with a view to securing the same depth on the bar as in the harbor, namely, twelve feet at mean low water.
Tugaloo River, Georgia and South Carolina, from its mouth to Fort Madison, South Carolina.
Clearwater Harbor, Florida, from the mouth of the Anclote River
to the beginning of the channel now being constructed by the Government from the south end of Clearwater Harbor into and through Boca Ceiga Bay, thence into Tampa Bay.
Saint Johns River, Florida, from deep water at or below Commodores Point to deep water above Sixmile Creek westward of the middle ground between Arlington Cut and the western shore of the river,
including a full consideration of the desirability and propriety of cooperation on the part of riparian owners.
Saint Marks River, Florida, from the town of Saint Marks to the Gulf of Mexico .
Channel between the Saint Johns River, Florida, and Cumberland Sound, by way of the Sisters Creek out of the Saint Johns River, with
a view to straightening and deepening the channel . Harbor at Saint Petersburg, Florida. Carrabelle Harbor, Florida, with a view to securing a depth of
twenty-one feet in the channel from the Gulf of Mexico to deep water in Saint George Sound by way of East Pass ; also for a channel of the same depth from the Gulf to Carrabelle.
Pithlachascotee River, Florida.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. CH. 166. 1911.

955

Saint Lucie Inlet, Florida, with a view to obtaining a depth of from twelve to fourteen feet.

Wekiva River, Florida. Alabama River, Alabama, with a view to the construction of a lock Alabama. and dam between Montgomery and Selma.

Bayou Lafourche, Louisiana, with a view to securing a depth of Louisiana. twenty feet at its mouth.

Bayou Chastaing, Louisiana. Mermentau River, Louisiana, with a. view to the construction of a lock and dam to maintain the level of Grand Lake and the inland
waterways of Louisiana.
Ponchatoula River, Louisiana.
Tangipahoa River, Louisiana. and
For a lock in the proposed dam at the foot of Caddo Lake, Louisiana TeLxoaus.isiana and Texas, and a channel from said dam to the Red River by way of Big Pass, Little Pass, Soda Lake, Twelvemile Bayou, and Cross Bayou.

Guadalupe River, Texas, to Victoria, with a view to improvement Texas. by locks and dams.

Colorado River, Texas, with a view to improvement by locks ,and dams.

The mouth of the Brazos River to Velasco, Texas.
Green River, Kentucky, at and near Lock and Dam Numbered Three, near Rochester, with a view to the diversion of the waters of Mud River from its present mouth above the said lock and dam, to a suitable point below.
North Fork of Kentucky River, Kentucky, with a view to the removal of obstructions.
Survey and estimate of the cost of improving the Cuyahoga River, Ohio, from its mouth to a more southerly connection with the Ohio Canal, with a view to eliminating bends and securing a navigable depth of twenty-one feet, with suitable width ; and the said survey and estimate shall include a report on any proposition for cooperation by localities affected thereby.
Petoskey Harbor, Michigan.
White Lake Harbor, Michigan, from the mouth of the channel to White Lake.

Kentucky. Ohio. Michigan.

Pentwater Harbor, Michigan, from the mouth of the channel to Pentwater Lake.

Saint Joseph Harbor, Michigan, with a view to its further improvement by the removal of a shoal and the securing of increased width and depth of channel below the Pere Marquette Railroad bridge.
Brule Harbor, Wisconsin.. Cornucopia Harbor, Wisconsin. Manitowoc Harbor and River, Wisconsin, with a view to their

Wisconsin.

further improvement to meet the demands of commerce by the deepening of said river and by the enlargement of the dredged area of the basin inside the breakwaters, or otherwise; also with a view to the creation of a harbor of refuge within said river and basin.
Lake of the Woods, at or near Arnesen, Minnesota, with a view to securing increased harbor facilities.
Indiana Harbor, Indiana, with a view to the construction of a

Minnesota. Indiana.

breakwater to protect the entrance of the harbor. Mississippi River between Calhoun Point and Mason Island, Illinois . Crescent City Harbor, California. Newport Harbor, California. Richmond Harbor, California. Santa Barbara Harbor, California.

Illinois. California.

San Joaquin River, California, with a view to its improvement up to a point at or near Herndon by means of locks and dams, or otherwise.

956

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 166. 1911.

Oregon.

Fremont Channel and McLeoad Lake arms of Stockton Channel, San Joaquin River, California.
Mokelumne River, California, with a view to its improvement from the Galt-New Hope Bridge to a point at or near Woodbridge.
Nehalem River, Oregon.

Alaska.

Nehalem Bar and entrance to Nehalem Bay, Oregon, with view to improvement of same in cooperation with local interests.
Oregon Slough branch of Columbia River, Oregon, including a consideration of any proposition for cooperation by localities affected thereby.
Yaquina River, Oregon, from Toledo to Yaquina, with report upon any proposition for cooperation by local interests.
Entrance to Kuskokwim River, through Kuskokwim Bay, Alaska. Sergius Narrows, Alaska.

Apoon mouth of Yukon River from Pastol Bay to the mouth of

Kotlik River, Alaska.

Porto Rico.

San Juan Harbor, Porto Rico.

Report of examina-

tions.

In all cases a preliminary examination of the river, harbor, or other

proposed improvement mentioned shall first be made, and a report

as to the advisability of its improvement shall be submitted, unless Unfavorable reports. a survey or estimate is herein expressly directed. If upon such pre-

liminary examination the proposed improvement is not deemed advisable, no further action shall be taken thereon without the further

abSluer. vey,etc., if favor- direction of Congress ; but in case the report shall be favorable to such proposed improvement, or that a survey and estimate should be made

Requirements.

to determine the advisability of improvement, the Secretary of War is hereby authorized, in his discretion, to cause surveys to be made, and the cost and advisability to be reported to Congress. And such reports containing plans and estimates shall also contain a statement

Printing of exami- as to the rate at which the work should be prosecuted.

nations, etc., during recess.

All reports on examinations and surveys which may be prepared

during the recess of Congress shall, in the discretion of the Secretary

of War, be printed by the Public Printer as documents of the follow-

Review of reports, ing session of Congress. etc., by Board of En- SEO. 3. That all reports on examinations and surveys authorized
gHianrebeorrssf.orRivers and in any section of this Act shall be reviewed by the Board of Engineers Vol. 32, p. 372. for Rivers and Harbors as provided for in section three of the river

and harbor Act approved June thirteenth, nineteen hundred and

two, and all special reports ordered by Congress shall, in the discretion

NationalWaterways of the Chief of Engineers, be reviewed in like manner by said board.

Commission.

SEC. 4. That so much of section seven of the river and harbor Act

Vol. 35, p. 819,

amended.

approved March third, nineteen hundred and nine, as provides that

tilTNeorvm.c4o,nt1i91n1u.edun- the term of the National Waterways Commission shall expire on

March fourth, nineteen hundred and eleven, be, and the same is

Final report.

hereby, repealed ; and the said commission, with its present membership and as now constituted, shall be continued until November fourth, nineteen hundred and eleven, with the powers and duties prescribed in said Act. And the said commission shall make a final report to Congress and file the same with the Secretary of the Senate

and the Clerk of the House of Representatives not later than Novem-

arTtiofiicinavlestwiagtaetre,weatycs., ber fourth, nineteen hundred and eleven. Said commission is also

and flood reservoirs. authorized to investigate and report upon the advisability and fea-

sibility of proposed artificial waterways and upon proposed plans for

the impounding of flood waters in rivers, by reservoirs or otherwise,

toCLaankale Efrioem. the Ohio including the following: First, the construction by the United States

of the proposed canal from the Ohio River, at a point near Pittsburg,

to Lake Erie, the expense thereof being borne by local interests toCaLnaaklefMriocmhLiagkaenE.rie affected ; second, the proposed canal from Lake Erie, by way of the

Canal, Anacostia Maumee River and Fort Wayne, or other direct and feasible route;

River, D. C. ,to Chesa- to the southerly end of Lake Michigan; and, third, the proposed canal

peake Bay.

to connect the Anacostia River at some point near the District of

Columbia boundary line with Chesapeake Bay, or some tributary

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 166, 167. 1911.

957

thereof. For the obtaining of the necessary engineering data the CoDrapts.afrom Engineer commission is authorized to call upon the Corps of Engineers, United

States Army, and said corps shall furnish said data upon the request of the commission, and the expense of obtaining the same shall be

paid from the appropriation made by said Act.

Army.

SEO. 5. That the Corps of Engineers of the United States Army is Engineer Corps in-

hereby increased by five colonels, six lieutenant colonels, nineteen crVeoasle. d3.3, p. 263. majors, seventeen captains, and thirteen first lieutenants. The "
Extended over five increase in each grade hereby provided for shall be extended over a years.
period of five years as nearly as practicable, and the original vacan- Original vacancies.

cies hereby created in each grade shall be filled by promotion from Provisos. the next lower grade in accordance with existing law: Provided, Person riverand

That officers of the Corps of Engineers, when on duty under the fharrobmordauptpyrotporbieaptiaoind Chief of Engineers, connected solely with the work of river and for the wor

harbor improvements may, while so employed, be paid their pay
and commutation of quarters from the appropriations for the work or Details of assistant works upon which they are employed: Provided further, That when- engineers.

ever it shall be necessary, in order to properly prosecute works of river and harbor improvement, the Chief of Engineers is authorized to detail for duty in charge of riverand harbor districts or as members

of boards of engineers any assistant engineers in the employ of the

Engineer Bureau of the War Department.

Filling vacancies Vacancies in the grade in grade of second

of second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers shall hereafter be filled, liFeurteonmantsM.ilitary as far as may be consistent with the interests of the military service, Academy.

bypromotions from the Corps of Cadets at the United States Military From civil life. Academy: Provided, That vacancies remaining in any fiscal year after

the assignment of cadets of the class graduating in that fiscal year may be filled from civil life as hereinafter provided : And provided Assignmentofgradufurther, That the proportion of any graduating class assigned to the ating cadets.
Corps of Engineers shall not be less than the proportion which the total number of officers authorized at date of graduation for that

corps bears to the total number of officers authorized at same date for all branches of the Army to which cadets are eligible for pro-

motion upon graduation, except when such a proportionate number

is more than the number of vacancies existing at date of graduation plus the number of retirements due to occur in the Corps of Engineers

prior to the first day of the following January. To become eligible poEilnitgimbeinltistyfrofmorciavpil for examination and appointment, a civilian candidate for the life. appointment as second lieutenant must be an unmarried citizen of the United States between the ages of twenty-one and twenty-nine, who

holds a diploma showing graduation in an engineering course from an approved technical school, and is eligible for appointment as a junior engineer under the Engineer Bureau of the War Department. Examinations, etc.

Selection of eligible civilians for appointment, including term of probation, shall be made as the result of such competitive examina-

tion into the mental, moral, and physical qualifications, and under

such rules and regulations as shall be recommended by the Chief of

Engineers and approved by the Secretary of War. ·

Approved, February 27, 1911 .

CHAP. 167.--An Act For rebuilding and improving the present light and fog Febr[uSa.r10y01257.,]1911. signal at Lincoln Rock, Alaska, or for building another light and fog-signal station

upon a different site near by.

[Public, No. 426.]-

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com- AlLaisknac.oln Rock, merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to rebuild and tiNonefworl.ight, etc., staimprove the present light and fog signal at Lincoln Rock, Alaska, or
establish a light and fog-signal station upon a different site near by, Post, p. 1430. at a cost not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars.
Approved, February 27, 1911.

958

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 168-170. 1911.

February 27, 1911. [H. R. 31539.]
[Public, No. 427.]

CHAP. 168.-An Act To authorize the Pensacola, Mobile and New Orleans Railway Company, a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Alabama, to construct a bridge over and across the Mobile River and its navigable channels above the city of Mobile, Alabama.

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Mobile River. Pensacola, Mobile- States of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Pensacola,

Mobile

raonaddNeCwomOrplaenaynsRmaaily- and New Orleans Railway Company, a corporation existing under the
Ablraid. ge above Mobile, laws of the State of Alabama, be, and is hereby, authorized to construct, operate and maintain a drawbridge and its approaches

thereto, across the Mobile River, at a point in the county of Mobile

suitable to the interests of navigation not further south than the north bank of the Chickasaw Creek at its mouth to be approved by

the Secretary of War, in accordance with the provisions of the Act

Vol. 34, p. 84.

entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over naviga-

ble waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

Formeract repealed. Vol. 35, p. 49.

SEC. 2. That the Act of Congress approved Maich twenty-sixth,

nineteen hundred and eight, entitled " An Act to authorize the Pen-

sacola, Mobile and New Orleans Railway Company, a corporation

existing under the laws of the State of Alabama, to construct a bridge

over and across the Mobile River and its navigable channels on a line

Amendment.

approximately east of the north boundary line of the city of Mobile, Alabama," is hereby repealed.
SEC. 3. That the right to alter, amend, and repeal this Act is hereby

expressly reserved.

Approved, February 27, 1911.

February 27, 1911. CHAP. 169.-An Act To authorize the board of supervisors or the town of High[H. R. 32220.] landing, Red Lake County, Minnesota, to construct a bridge across the Red Lake
[Public, No. 428.] River.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Red Lake River. States of America in Highlanding, Minn.,

Congress assembled,

That the board of super-

may bridge.

visors of the town of Highlanding, Red Lake County, Minnesota, be,

and they are hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate

a bridge and approaches thereto across the Red Lake River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or near section line between

Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

sections twenty-eight and twenty-nine, township one hundred and fiftythree north, range forty west, in the county of Red Lake, in the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters, " approved March twenty-third , nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved; February 27, 1911.

February 27, 1911. CHAP. 170.- An Act To authorize the Saint Paul Railway Promotion Company, [H. R. 32341.] a corporation, to construct a bridge across the Mississippi River, near Nininger,
[Public, No. 429.] Minnesota.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Mississippi River. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Saint Paul Railway Saint Paul Railway
Promotion Company Promotion Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Minmaybridge, Nininger, nesota, its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized to construct,

.Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Mississippi River, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or near Nininger, in the County of Dakota, in the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, February 27, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 171, 179. 1911.

959

CHAP. 171.--An Act To authorize the North Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Delaware and Bound Brook Railroad Company to construct a bridge across the Delaware River from Lower Makefield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, to EwingTownship, Mercer County, New Jersey.

Feb[Hr.uaRr.y322470,01.9]11. [Public, No. 430.]

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Delaware River. States of America in Congress assembled, That the North Pennsyl- Bridge authorized vania Railroad Company and the Delaware and Bound Brook Rail- aMcarkoesfsi,elfdr,oPma.L, toowEewrroad Company, their lessees, successors, and assigns, be, and they are ing, N. J. hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto, across the Delaware River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, from the township of Lower Makefield, county of Bucks, State of Pennsylvania, at or near the southeastern boundary of the borough of Yardley to a point at or near ten feet south of the existing bridge in the township of Ewing, in the county of Mercer, in the State of New Jersey, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of Vol. 34, p. 84. bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, February 27, 1911.

CHAP. 179.-An Act To authorize the city of Seattle, Washington, to purchase February 28, 1911.

certain lands for the protection of the source of its water supply.

[8.6432.]

[Public, No. 431.]

Be itenactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the public lands in PLuabnldisc lawnidtsh. drawn township twenty-one north, ranges nine, ten, and eleven east, and ifnrgotmone.ntry in Washtownship twenty-two north, ranges eight, nine, ten, and eleven east of

the Willamette meridian, in the State of Washington, are hereby with-

drawn from all location, settlement, and entry under the public-land

laws: Provided, That this withdrawal shall in no way operate to inter-

Proviso. Valid rights not af-

fere with the right of any settler or other claimant under the public- fected.

land laws to complete a claim to any portion of such land heretofore

lawfully initiated.
Cedar River, Wash., SEO. 2. That upon the deposit, within one year of the passage of drainage basin.

this Act, by the city of Seattle, in the State of Washington, with the Sesautrtvleey. authorized for Secretary of the Interior, of a sum estimated by him as sufficient to

pay the cost of the survey herein provided for, the said Secretary shall

cause to be executed a survey, defining the limits of the drainage basin of Cedar River within the area withdrawn by section one of this

Act and pay for the same out of the appropriation for public-land

surveys, and a sum sufficient to pay the cost of such survey shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States, to the credit of the appro-

priation for public-land surveys, out of the sum so deposited by the

city of Seattle, and the remainder of the sum so deposited, if any, shall be repaid to such city, and upon the completion of such survey

and its approval by the Secretary of the Interior the lands withdrawn

by section one of this Act not within the drainage basin of Cedar River

shall be restored to their present status.

SEC.

3.

That

upon

the

deposit

with

the Secretary of the

Interior

Appraisal etc.

of

lands,

within one year of the passage of this Act, by the city of Seattle, igAnpaptreadi.sers to bedesState of Washington, of a sum estimated by the Secretary of the

Interior to be sufficient to cover the cost of the examination and ap-

praisal herein provided for, the Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-

retary of Agriculture shall each designate one qualified appraiser, and

the two appraisers thus designated shall designate a third appraiser, who shall be a resident of King County, Washington, not a Federal

officer or employee, who shall be familiar with the stumpage value of

960

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . · CHS. 179-181 . 1911 .

timber in the locality to be appraised, and the board of appraisers thus constituted shall proceed to an examination and appraisal of the present

commercial stumpage value of the timber on the public lands within the drainage basin of Cedar River in the area withdrawn by section one of this Act, the cost of such examination and appraisal to be paid pePnsaeysmbyenSetattolef. ex- out of the appropriation for public-land surveys. Upon the completion of such examination and appraisal and its approval by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture a sum sufficient to pay the cost thereof shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States, to the credit of the appropriation for public-land surveys, out

Seattle, Wash.

of the sum deposited therefor by the city of Seattle, and the remainder of such sum, if any, shall be repaid to said city.
SEC. 4. That within one year after the approval of the survey and

baLsainndgsranitneddrtaoi. nage appraisal provided for in this Act, the Secretary of the Interior is

authorized to patent to the city of Seattle all of the public lands within

Payment.

the drainage basin of Cedar River in the area withdrawn under section one of this Act, upon the payment by the said city of Seattle of the

sum estimated by the board of appraisers provided for in section two

Provisos. Minimum price.

of this Act as being the present commercial stumpage value of the timber on the public lands within such area: Provided, That if the sum of such estimate shall be less than the sum of one dollar and

Minerals reserved.

twenty-five cents per acre for all of the lands to be patented the city of Seattle shall pay the sum of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre for said lands: And provided further; That there is hereby reserved to the United States all mineral deposits in said lands and the right to dispose thereof and to use such lands for such purpose.

Approved, February 28, 1911 .

February 28, 1911. [S. 10318.]

CHAP. 180.-An Act Authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to grant further

extensions of time within which to make proof on desert-land entries in the counties

[Public, No. 432.] of Benton, Yakima, and Klickitat.

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Washington.

Desert-land entries States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

in certain counties.

Time extended for Interior may, in his discretion, grant to any entryman under the

completing.

desert-land laws in the counties of Benton, Yakima, and Klickitat, in

the State of Washington, a further extension of the time within

which they are required to make final proof, provided such entryman

shall, by his corroborated affidavit, filed in the land office of the district

where such land is located, show to the satisfaction of the Secretary

that because of unavoidable delay in the construction of irrigation

works intended to convey water to the land embraced in his entry, he

is, without fault on his part, unable to make proof of the reclamation

and cultivation of said lands as required by law within the time

limited therefor; but such extension shall not be granted for a period

of more than three years, and this Act shall not affect contests initiated for a valid existing reason.

Approved, February 28, 1911.

February 28, 1911. .CHAP. 181.-An Act To consolidate certain forest lands in the Kansas National [H. R. 32571.] Forest.
[Public, No. 433.] Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
FoKreasnts. as National States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the forE.xchange of lands Interior, for the purpose of consolidating the forest lands belonging
to the United States within the Kansas National Forest, be, and he
hereby is, authorized and empowered, upon the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, to exchange lands belonging to the
United States which are part of the Kansas National Forest for pri-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS: SESS. III. Cs. 181 , 185, 186. 1911 .

961

vately owned lands lying within the exterior limits of the said national Provisos.

forest: Provided, That the lands so exchanged shall be equal in area

Value and area. Lands added to na-

and substantially equal in value: And provided further, That upon the tional forest.

consummation of such exchange the land deeded to the United States

thereunder shall become a part of the Kansas National Forest.

Approved, February 28, 1911.

CHAP. 185.-An Act To authorize the city of Shreveport to construct a bridge across Red River.

March 1, 1911. [S. 10349.]
[Public, No. 434.]

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the city of Shreveport,

Red River. Shreveport,La. ,may

a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Louisiana, be, bridge.

and is hereby, authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a traffic
bridge and approaches thereto across the Red River at a point suitable Vol. 34, p. 84.
to the interests of navigation, at Shreveport, in the State of Louisiana,

in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of a bridge over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Amendment.

Approved, March 1, 1911.

CHAP. 186.-An Act To enable any State to cooperate with any other State or States, or with the United States, for the protection of the watersheds of navigable streams, and to appoint a commission for the acquisition of lands for the purpose of conserving the navigability of navigable rivers.

March 1, 1911. [H. R. 11798.]
[Public, No. 435.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Conservation ofnaviStates ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the consent of the Con- gaAbglereweatmeernst, ebtce.tween gress of the United States is hereby given to each of the several States States for, authorized.
of the Union to enter into any agreement or compact, not in conflict with any law of the United States, with any other State or States
for the purpose of conserving the forests and the water supply of the States entering into such agreement or compact.
SEO. 2. That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars is hereby opAeprpartoipngriwaittihonfSotratceo-s appropriated and made available until expended, out of any moneys for fire protection. in the National Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to enable the
Secretary of Agriculture to cooperate with any State or group of States, when requested to do so, in the protection from fire of the
forested watersheds of navigable streams; and the Secretary of Agri- teFrsohreedsst loafndnsavoingawbal-o culture is hereby authorized, and on such conditions as he deems rivers. wise, to stipulate and agree with any State or group of States to cooperate in the organization and maintenance of a system of fire protection on any private or state forest lands within such State or
States and situated upon the watershed of a navigable river: Pro- PSrtoavtieslosaw required. vided, That no such stipulation or agreement shall be made with any
State which has not provided by law for a system of forest-fire protection: Provided further, That in no case shall the amount Expenditures lim-
ited . expended in any State exceed in any fiscal year the amount appropriated by that State for the same purpose during the same fiscal year.
SEO. 3. That there is hereby appropriated, for the fiscal year ending acAqpupirroipnrgi,atetico.n,slands June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, the sum of one million at headwaters of navidollars, and for each fiscal year thereafter a sum not to exceed two gable streams.
million dollars for use in the examination, survey, and acquirement
of lands located on the headwaters of navigable streams or those which are being or which may be developed for navigable purposes: Proviso. Provided, That the provisions of this section shall expire by limitation Limited to 1915.
on the thirtieth day of June, nineteen hundred and fifteen.

962

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 186. 1911.

National Forest Reservation Commission.

SEC. 4. That a commission, to be known as the National Forest

Members.

Reservation Commission, consisting of the Secretary of War, the

Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and two mem-

bers of the Senate, to be selected by the President of the Senate,

and two members of the House of Representatives, to be selected

ofTloanpdass, estoc.n purchase by the Speaker, is hereby created and authorized to consider and pass

upon such lands as may be recommended for purchase as provided

in section six of this Act, and to fix the price or prices at which such lands may be purchased, and no purchases shall be made of any lands

Proviso.

until such lands have been duly approved for purchase by said com-

Service of members. mission : Provided, That the members of the commission herein

created shall serve as such only during their incumbency in their

Annual reports.

respective official positions, and any vacancy on the commission shall be filled in the manner as the original appointment.
SEO. 5. That the commission hereby appointed shall, through its

president, annually report to Congress, not later than the first Monday

in December, the operations and expenditures of the commission, in

detail, during the preceding fiscal year.

Location of lands, etc.

SEO. 6. That the Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized

and directed to examine, locate, and recommend for purchase such

lands as in his judgment may be necessary to the regulation of the

Proviso.

flow of navigable streams, and to report to the National Forest

Examination by Reservation Commission the results of such examinations : Provided, Geological Survey.
That before any lands are purchased by the. National Forest Reser-

vation Commission said lands shall be examined by the Geological

Survey and a report made to the Secretary of Agriculture, showing that the control of such lands will promote or protect the navigation

of streams on whose watersheds they lie.

Purchase of lands approved by Commis-

SEO. 7. That the Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized

sion.

to purchase, in the name of the United States, such lands as have

been approved for purchase by the National Forest Reservation

Proviso. Consent of States.

Commission at the price or prices fixed by said commission: Provided,

That no deed or other instrument of conveyance shall be accepted

or approved by the Secretary of Agriculture under, this Act until the

legislature of the State in which the land lies shall have consented

to the acquisition of such land by the United States for the purpose

Title, eto.

of preserving the navigability of navigable streams. SEC. 8. That the Secretary of Agriculture may do all things neces-
sary to secure the safe title in the United States to the lands to be

acquired under this Act, but no payment shall be made for any such lands until the title shall be satisfactory to the Attorney-General and shall be vested in the United States. Timber and mineral rightsmay bereserved. SEO. 9. That such acquisition may in any case be conditioned upon
the exception and reservation to the owner from whom title passes
to the United States of the minerals and of the merchantable timber,
or either or any part of them, within or upon such lands at the date
ingR.egulations govern of the conveyance, but in every case such exception and reservation and the time within which such timber shall be removed and the rules

and regulations under which the cutting and removal of such timber and the mining and removal of such minerals shall be done shall be expressed in the written instrument of conveyance, and thereafter the mining, cutting, and removal of the minerals and timber so

excepted and reserved shall be done only under and in obedience

to the rules and regulations so expressed.

Sale of agricultural tracts not needed for

SEO. 10. That inasmuch as small areas of land chiefly valuable for

public uses.

agriculture may of necessity or by inadvertence be included in tracts

acquired under this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may, in his

discretion, and he is hereby authorized , upon application or otherwise, to examine and ascertain the location and extent of such areas as in

his opinion may be occupied for agricultural purposes without injury to the forests or to stream flow and which are not needed for public

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 186, 187. 1911.

963

purposes, and may list and describe the same by metes and bounds, Limit of tracts. or otherwise, and offer them for sale as homesteads at their true value,
to be fixed by him, to actual settlers, in tracts not exceeding eighty
acres in area, under such joint rules and regulations as the Secretary State jurisdiction reof Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe; and sumed. in case of such sale the jurisdiction over the lands sold shall, ipso facto, revert to the State in which the lands sold lie. And no right, title, jeAcltltroigphrtso,vietsci.o,nssubo-f

interest, or claim in or to any lands acquired under this Act, or the this Act.

waters thereon, or the products, resources, or use thereof after such

lands shall have been so acquired, shall be initiated or perfected, except

as in this section provided.

Lands reserved per-

SEO. 11. That, subject to the provisions of the last preceding sec- manently as national

tion, the lands acquired under this Act shall be permanently reserved, forests. held, and administered as national forest lands under the provisions

of section twenty-four of the Act approved March third, eighteen Vol. 26, p. 1103. hundred and ninety-one (volume twenty-six, Statutes at Large, page

eleven hundred and three), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory

thereof. And the Secretary of Agriculture may from time to time siDoenssi. gnation of divi-

divide the lands acquired under this Act into such specific national
forests and so designate the same as he may deem best for administrative purposes.
SEC. 12. That the jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, over persons noSttaaftfeecjtuerdi. sdiction

upon the lands acquired under this Act shall not be affected or changed UnOiftfeednsSetsataegsaienxsctetphteby their permanent reservation and administration as national forest ed.

lands, except so far as the punishment of offenses against the United States is concerned, the intent and meaning of this section being that

the State wherein such land is situated shall not, by reason of such reservation and administration, lose its jurisdiction nor the inhabit-

ants thereof their rights and privileges as citizens or be absolved from their duties as citizens of the State.
SEO. 13. That five per centum of all moneys received during any ceiPpatysmteontstfartoems froer-

fiscal year from each national forest into which the lands acquired rcooaudnst.y schools and under this Act may from time to time be divided shall be paid, at the
end of such year, by the Secretary of the Treasury to the State in which such national forest is situated, to be expended as the state
legislature may prescribe for the benefit of the public schools and public roads of the county or counties in which such national forest is Provisos. situated: Provided, That when any national forest is in more than Division. one State or county the distributive share to each from the proceeds
of such forest shall be proportional to its area therein : Provided fur- Maximum to counther, That there shall not be paid to any State for any county an ties.
amount equal to more than forty per centum of the total income of such county from all other sources.
SEC. 14. That a sum sufficient to pay the necessary expenses of the exAppepnrsoesproifatCiomomnifso-r commission. and its members, not to exceed an annual expenditure on. of twenty-five thousand dollars, is hereby appropriated out of any Accounts. money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated. Said appropriation shall be immediately available, and shall be paid out on the audit and order of the president of the said commission, which audit and order shall be conclusive and binding upon all departments as to the correctness of the accounts of said commission.

Approved, March 1, 1911.

CHAP. 187.- An Act To protect the dignity and honor of the uniform of the United States.

March 1, 1911. [H. R. 23015.] [Public, No. 436.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That hereafter no proprietor, SSttaatnesf.orms of United
manager, or employee of a theater or other public place of entertain- Punishment for disment or amusement in the District of Columbia, or in any Territory, cterrism,ientca.tiaognasinbsyt wtehaera--

the District of Alaska or Insular possession of the United States, ersof.

964

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C8. 187-190. 1911.
shall make, or cause to be made, any discrimination against any person lawfully wearing the uniform of the Army, Navy, RevenueCutter Service or Marine Corps of the United States because of that uniform, and any person making, or causing to be made, such discrimination shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars.
Approved, March 1, 1911 .

March 1, 1911. [H. R. 32440.]
[Public, No. 437.]

CHAP. 188.- An Act Authorizing the Moline, East Moline and Watertown Railway Company to construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the South Branch of the Mississippi River from a point in the village of Watertown, Rock Island County, Illinois, to the island known as Campbells Island.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Mississippi River. Moline, East Moline

States of America in Congress assembled,

That the Moline, East Moline

and Watertown Rail- and Watertown Railway Company, a corporation organized under the

SwoauythCo.Brmaanycbhridogfe, laws of the State of Illinois, is hereby authorized to construct, main-

Watertown, IN.

tain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the South

Branch of the Mississippi River from a point suitable to the interests

of navigation in the village of Watertown, in the county of Rock

Island and State of Illinois, to the island known as Campbells Island ,

in said county of Rock Island, said bridge to be a wagon and street

Vol. 34, p. 84.

railway bridge, whose use is to be free to the public, the same to be built in accordance with the provisions of an Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters, " approved

Amendment.

March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six. SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby
expressly reserved..

Approved, March 1 , 1911.

March 1, 1911. [H. R. 10430.]
[Public, No. 438.]

CHAP. 189.-An Act To authorize the establishment of a marine biological station on the Gulf coast of the State of Florida.

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Marine biological States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Comstation.

idEasGtualblficsohaesdt.on Flor- merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and

directed to establish a marine biological station on the Gulf of Mexico

Post, p. 1440.

at a point on the coast of the State of Florida, to be selected by him

Proviso.

Donation from in said State: Provided, That the State of Florida donates and tranfers,

State.

free of cost, to the Government of the United States necessary land

and water rights upon which may be erected such buildings, wharves,

and other structures as may be necessary for the proper equipment of

said station, such biological station, buildings, wharves, and other

structures not to cost exceeding fifty thousand dollars. Admissions for in- SEC. 2. That the professors, instructors, and students of the several vestigations.
land-grant, agricultural, and mechanical colleges of the United States shall be admitted to said station to pursue such investigation in fish
culture and biology as may be practicable, without cost to the Govern-
ment, under such rules and regulations as may be from time to time prescribed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

Approved, March 1 , 1911.

March 2, 1911.

CHAP. 190.-An Act To amend section six of the currency Act ofMarchfourteenth,

[S. 10457.J nineteen hundred, as amended by the Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred

[Public, No. 439.] and seven.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Gold bullion, etc. Vol. 31, p.47.

States of America in Congress assembled, That section six of an Act to

amVeonld. ed3.4, p. 1289, define and fix the standard of value, to maintain the parity of all forms of money issued or coined by the United States, to refund the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 190 , 191..1911 .

965

public debt, and for other purposes, approved March fourteenth, nineteen hundred, as amended by the Act approved March fourth,

nineteen hundred and seven, be, and the same is hereby, further amended so as to read as follows:
"SEC. 6. That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized Gold certificates issued for deposits of
and directed to receive deposits of gold coin with the Treasurer, or gold coin.
any assistant treasurer of the United States, in sums of not less than
twenty dollars, and to issue gold certificates therefor in denomina- Denominations.
tions of not less than ten dollars, and the coin so deposited shall be

retained in the Treasury and held for the payment of such certificates

on demand, and used for no other purpose. Such certificates shall

be receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues, and when so · received may be reissued, and when held by any national banking
association may be counted as a part of its lawful reserve: Provided,

Provisos. Suspension of issue

That whenever and so long as the gold coin and bullion- held in the i$f10r0e,s0e00r,v0e00f.und below reserve fund in the Treasury for the redemption of United States

notes and Treasury notes shall fall and remain below one hundred

million dollars the authority to issue certificates as herein provided
shall be suspended : And provided further, That whenever and so long veOrnceIrntcirfeicaasteeso,fetacl.l,as the aggregate amount of United States notes and silver certificates in the Treasury. in the general fund of the Treasury shall exceed sixty million dollars
the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, suspend the Denomination of issue of the certificates herein provided for: And provided further, outstanding certifiThat of the amount of such outstanding certificates one-fourth at cates. least shall be in denominations of fifty dollars or less : And provided Large notes.

further, That the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion,
issue such certificates in denominations of ten thousand dollars, payable to order: And providedfurther, That the Secretary of the Treasury vaIlsuseueof ffoorreigbnulgloiolnd

may, in his discretion, receive, with the assistant treasurer in New coin. York and the assistant treasurer in San Francisco, deposits of foreign

gold coin at their bullion value in amounts of not less than one thousand dollars in value and issue gold certificates therefor of the descrip-

tion herein authorized : And provided further, That the Secretary of bbullluioen. for stamped the Treasury may, in his discretion, receive, with the Treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the United States, deposits of gold bullion bearing the stamp of the coinage mints of the United States, or the

assay office in New York, certifying their weight, fineness, and value, in amounts of not less than one thousand dollars in value, and issue gold certificates therefor of the description herein authorized . But the amount of gold bullion and foreign coin so held shall not at any time exceed one-third of the total amount of gold certificates at such

Maximum.

time outstanding. And section fifty-one hundred and ninety-three 1,0R01., rSe.p,esaelce.d.5193, p. of the Revised Statutes of the United States is hereby repealed."

Approved, March 2, 1911 .

CHAP. 191.--An Act To authorize the receiptof certified checks drawn on national and State banks for duties on imports and internal taxes, and for other purposes.

March 2, 1911. [H. R. 30570.]
[Public, No. 440.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That it shall be lawful for

Certified checks. Accepted for cus

collectors of customs and of internal revenue to receive for duties on toms duties and inter-

imports and internal taxes certified checks drawn on national and State nal revenue.

banks, and trust companies during such time and under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. No person, Ultimate payment.

however, who may be indebted to the United States on account of duties on imports or internal taxes who shall have tendered a certified

check or checks as provisional payment for such duties or taxes, in accordance with the terms of this Act, shall be released from the obli-

gation to make ultimate payment thereof until such certified check so

88740°-VOL 36, T 1-11-63

966

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH8. 191 , 192. 1911.

Lien ifnot paid.

received has been duly paid ; and if any such check so received is not
duly paid by the bank on which it is drawn and so certifying, the United States shall, in addition to its right to exact payment from the
party originally indebted therefor, have a lien for the amount of such check upon all the assets of such bank; and such amount shall be paid

out of its assets in preference to any or all other claims whatsoever

against said bank, except the necessary costs and expenses of adminis-

tration and ' the reimbursement of the United States for the amount

expended in the redemption of the circulating notes of such bank.

Effective June 1, 1911.

SEC. 2. That this Act shall be effective on and after June first, niné-

teen hundred and eleven.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

March 2, 1911. [H. R. 31856.]
[Public, No. 441.]

CHAP. 192. An Act Making appropriations to provide for the expenses of the gov-
ernment of the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United appDrisotprriicattoiofnCso.lumbia States of America in Congress assembled, That the half of the followrevHeanlufesf.rom District ing sums named, respectively, is hereby appropriated, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and the other half out of the revenues of the District of Columbia, in full for the
purposes following, being for the expenses of the government of the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, namely:

General expenses.

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Executive office. Salaries of commis-

EXECUTIVE OFFICE : Two commissioners, at five thousand dollars

sioners, etc.

each ;

Assistantstoengineer

engineer

commissioner,

two

hundred

and

eighty

dollars

(to

commissioner.

make salary five thousand dollars) ; additional compensation for two

Vol. 20, p. 103.

assistants to the engineer commissioner, detailed from the Engineer

Corps ofthe United States Army, under Act of Congress approved June

eleventh, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, two, at two hundred

and fifty dollars each ; secretary, two thousand four hundred dollars ; two assistant secretaries to commissioners, one at one thousand four

hundred dollars, and one at one thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand five hundred

dollars ; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; two clerks at one

thousand two hundred dollars each ; clerk, who shall be a stenog-

rapher and typewriter, one thousand dollars ; clerk, eight hundred

and forty dollars ; clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; clerk,

six hundred dollars ; messenger, six hundred dollars ; messenger, four

hundred and eighty dollars ; stenographer and typewriter, eight hun-

dred and forty dollars ; two drivers, at six hundred dollars each;

Index to District

laws, etc.

For services, supplies, and printing, in the preparation of an index

of the laws of Congress relating to the District of Columbia, and of

the laws of former municipal governments in the District which are still in force, also consolidating indexes of orders and of opinions of

the corporation counsel, and other records, one thousand six hundred

dollars ; Veterinary surgeon. Veterinary division : Veterinary surgeon for all horses in the

departments of the District government, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

Purchasing division. Purchasing division : Purchasing officer, who shall, under the direcduPtuiersc,hbasoinndg, etocf.ficer, tion of the commissioners, supervise the purchase and distribution
of all supplies, stores, and construction materials for the use of the

government of the District of Columbia, and who shall give bond in

such sum as the commissioners may determine, two thousand seven

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 192. 1911 .

967

hundred and fifty dollars; deputy purchasing officer, one thousand

six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk,

one thousand three hundred dollars ; six clerks, at one thousand two

hundred dollars each; three clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; six

clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; inspector of fuel,

one thousand five hundred dollars; assistant inspector of fuel, one

thousand one hundred dollars; storekeeper, nine hundred dollars;'

messenger, six hundred dollars; driver, four hundred and eighty dollars; inspector, nine hundred dollars; inspector, seven hundred and

eighty dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; inspector

of property, nine hundred and thirty-six dollars ; two property-yard keepers, at one thousand dollars each; inspector of materials, one thousand two hundred dollars.

Building inspection division: Inspector of buildings, three thousand diBviusiilodni.ng inspection dollars; principal assistant inspector of buildings, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; eleven assistant inspectors of buildings, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; fire-escape inspector, one thousand

four hundred dollars; temporary employment of additional assistant inspectors for such time as their services may be necessary, three thousand dollars; two civil engineers or computers, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; chief clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand dollars ; clerk, nine hundred dollars;

clerk, who shall be a stenographer and typewriter, one thousand dollars; messenger, four hundred and eighty dollars ; assistant inspector, one thousand five hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand and fifty dollars (transferred from water department);

To reimburse two elevator inspectors for the provision and main- vatMoortoinrspceycctloerssf.or eletenance by themselves of two motor cycles for use in their official

inspection of elevators in the District of Columbia, fifteen dollars per

month each, three hundred and sixty dollars;

In any case where building permits have been issued and no work peRremtiturfenes.of unused has been begun thereunder, the person who has paid the fee for said

permit may return said permit for cancellation, and upon the cancellation thereof there shall be refunded to him, in the manner prescribed

by law for the refunding of erroneously paid taxes, the amount of said

fee less the actual expense incident to the issuance of said permit, as

determined by the inspector of buildings : Provided, That application PCornodittoion. for such refund shall be made within six months after the issuance of

said permit; 1 Plumbing inspection division: Inspector of plumbing, two thou- tiPonludimvbiisinogn.
sand dollars; principal assistant inspector of plumbing, one thousand four hundred dollars; five assistant inspectors of plumbing, one at one

Inspec-

thousand two hundred dollars and four at one thousand dollars each;

clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; temporary employment of

additional assistant inspectors of plumbing and laborers for such

time as their services may be necessary, two thousand two hundred

dollars ; draftsman, one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ; sewer tapper, one thousand dollars; clerk, nine hundred dollars ; three

members of the plumbing board, at three hundred dollars each;

maintenance of motor cycle, one hundred and twenty dollars;

In all, one hundred and fourteen thousand and eighty-six dollars.

The provisions of the act approved March fifteenth, eighteen hun- anLneuaavleesmpolfoaybeseesn.ce to dred and ninety-eight, as amended by the act approved July -sev- Vol. 30, pp. 316, 353.
enth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, regulating leave of absence

to employees of the Federal Government, are hereby made applica-

ble to the regular annual employees of the government of the District

of Columbia, except the police and fire departments, and public- teaPcohleircse,exfcierpetmeedn,. and school officers, teachers, and employees.

CARE OF DISTRICT BUILDING: Clerk and stenographer, two thou- Care of District sand dollars; chief engineer, one thousand four hundred dollars; three.Building.

968

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

assistant engineers, at one thousand dollars each; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two dynamo tenders, at eight hun-

dred and seventy-five dollars each; three firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; three coal passers, at six hundred dollars each; electrician's helper, eight hundred and forty dollars; eight elevator conductors, at six hundred dollars each; two laborers, at six' hundred and sixty dollars each ; two laborers, at five hundred dollars each; two chief cleaners who shall also have charge of the lavatories,

at five hundred dollars each; forty cleaners, at two hundred and forty dollars each; chief watchman, one thousand dollars ; assistant chief

watchman, six hundred and sixty dollars; eight watchmen, at six

Proviso. Appointment.

hundred dollars each; pneumatic-tube operator, six hundred dollars ; in all, thirty-eight thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars : Provided, That the employees herein authorized for the care of the Dis-

trict building shall be appointed by the assistants to the engineer

· Maintenance penses.

commissioner, with the approval of the commissioners. ex- For fuel, light, power, repairs, laundry, mechanics and labor.not
to exceed three thousand five hundred dollars, and miscellaneous

supplies, twenty-five thousand dollars. Assessor's office.
ASSESSOR'S OFFICE : Assessor, three thousand five hundred dollars,

and five hundred dollars additional as chairman of the excise and

personal tax boards; two assistant assessors, at two thousand dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; clerk, arrears division, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars (transferred from water department); four clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; draftsman, one thousand two hundred dollars; six clerks, at one thousand dol-

lars each ; assistant or clerk, nine hundred dollars ; clerk in charge of records, one thousand dollars; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars

each; license clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; inspector of licenses, one thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant inspector of · licenses, one thousand dollars; messenger, six hundred dollars ;

messenger, four hundred and fifty dollars; three assistant assessors, at three thousand dollars each ; clerk to board of assistant assessors,

one thousand five hundred dollars ; messenger and driver, for board

of assistant assessors, six hundred dollars; two clerks, at seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars each; temporary clerk hire, five hundred

dollars; record clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; in all, forty-

eight thousand two hundred and ninety dollars. c.alPrbeopoakrsi.ng numeri- For temporary clerk hire for preparing numerical books, to be

immediately available, provided that the regular employees of the

assessor's office may be employed on this work after office hours,

with additional compensation to be determined by the commissioners .

Excise board.

upon the recommendation of the assessor, two thousand dollars. EXCISE BOARD : Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; clerk, one

thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand dollars; messen-.

ger, six hundred dollars ; in all, four thousand eight hundred dollars. 'Personal tax board. PERSONAL TAX BOARD: Two assistant assessors of personal taxes,
at three thousand dollars each; appraiser of personal property, one
- thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand dollars ; three inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; extra clerk hire, two thousand
Collector's office. dollars; in all, fifteen thousand eight hundred dollars. COLLECTOR'S OFFICE! Collector, four thousand dollars; deputy
collector, two thousand dollars; cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant cashier, one thousand four hundred dollars ; book-

keeper, one thousand six hundred dollars ; three clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; three coupon clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; clerk and bank messenger, one thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk, one thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. ` 1911.

969

sand dollars; messenger, six hundred dollars; in all, twenty-one thou- .

sand seven hundred dollars.

For extra labor in the preparation

of tax-sale

certificates,

and

data,

Tax-sale cates, etc.

certif-

which the law requires this office to furnish the recorder of deeds

and the assessor with authority to employ typewriters and clerks,

eight hundred dollars.

AUDITOR'S OFFICE: Auditor, four thousand dollars; chief clerk, who

Auditor's office Chief clerk, added.

shall hereafter, in the necessary absence or inability from any cause dudes.

of the auditor, perform his duties without additional compensation,

and who shall during the.presence of the auditor perform such duties

as shall be prescribed by the auditor; and the auditor may require Bond, etc.

the said chief clerk to give bond for the faithful performance of such

duties; but the auditor shall in every respect be responsible to the

United States, the District of Columbia, and to individuals as now

provided by law, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; bookkeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars; three clerks, at one

thousand six hundred dollars each; three clerks, at one thousand

four hundred dollars each; clerk, she thousand three hundred and .

fifty dollars ; three clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each;

five clerks, at one thousand dollars each; clerk, one thousand dollars

(now paid from appropriation for elimination of grade crossings) ; clerk, nine hundred and thirty-six dollars ; two clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each; clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; clerk, seven

hundred and twenty dollars; messenger, six hundred dollars ; dis-

bursing officer, three thousand dollars; deputy disbursing officer, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand two hundred

dollars; two clerks, at one thousand dollars each; clerk, nine hundred

dollars; messenger, four hundred and eighty dollars; in all, forty-one

thousand nine hundred and fifty-six dollars.

OFFICE OF CORPORATION COUNSEL: Corporation counsel, four thou- selC'osropfofircaet.ion coun sand five hundred dollars ; first assistant, two thousand five hundred
dollars; second, assistant, one thousand eight hundred dollars; third

assistant, one thousand six hundred dollars; fourth assistant, one

thousand five hundred dollars ; fifth assistant, onethousand five hun- (-:

dred dollars; stenographer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; ste-

nographer, eight hundred and forty dollars; clerk, seven hundred and

twenty dollars; in all, sixteen thousand one hundred and sixty dollars.

SINKING-FUND OFFICE, UNDER CONTROL OF THE TREASURER OF THE Sinking-fund office.

UNITED STATES : Clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, nine

hundred dollars; in all, two thousand five hundred dollars. CORONER'S OFFICE: Coroner, one thousand eight hundred dollars; Coroner's office.

morgue master, seven hundred and twenty dollars; assistant morgue

master and janitor, four hundred and eighty dollars; hostler and jahitor, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, three thousand three

hundred and sixty dollars.

MARKET MASTERS: Two market masters, at one thousand two hun- Market masters.

dred dollars each; assistant market masters, who shall also perform .

the necessary labor in cleaning the markets, and one laborer for duty

at Eastern Market, two thousand two hundred and eighty dollárs; in

all, four thousand six hundred and eighty dollars.

·

WHOLESALE PRODUCERS' MARKET: Market master, nine hundred Produce market.

dollars; assistant market master, who shall also act as night watchman, five hundred and forty dollars; watchman, four hundred and

eighty dollars ; laborer for sweeping B street sidewalk used for market

purposes and the wholesale market square, three hundred and sixty

dollars; sweeping B street used for market purposes, four hundred

and eighty dollars; hauling refuse (street sweepings), six hundred
dollars; in all, three thousand three hundred and sixty dollars. EASTERN MARKET: . Laborer for cleaning sidewalk and street where Eastern market.

used for market purposes (farmers' market), two hundred and forty dollars.

970

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

Western market.

WESTERN MARKET: Laborer for cleaning sidewalk and street where

used for market purposes (farmers' market), two hundred and forty

dollars.

Superintendent of weights, measures,

OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT OF WEIGHTS , MEASURES, AND MARKETS:

and markets.

Superintendent of weights, measures, and markets, two thousand five

hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars; clerk,

one thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant, nine hundred dollars;

laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars; in all, six thousand two

hundred and eighty dollars. Purchases for inves- For the purchase of small quantities of groceries, meats, and protigations.
visions, and so forth, in connection with the investigation and detec-

tion of sales of short weight and measure, fifty dollars.

Engineer Commis

sloner's office.

ENGINEER COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE: Engineer of highways, three

tenEdnegnitnse,eertsc,. superin- thousand dollars ; engineer of bridges, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; superintendent of streets, two thousand dollars;

Asphalt inspector.
Proviso. Restriction.

superintendent of county roads, two thousand dollars; superintendent of sewers, three thousand dollars; inspector of asphalts and cements, two thousand four hundred dollars (Provided, That the inspector of asphalts and cements shall not receive or accept compensation of any kind from, or perform any work or render any services of a character required of him officially by the District of Columbia to, any person, firm, corporation, or municipality other than the District of

Columbia); assistant inspector of asphalts and cements, one thousand

five hundred dollars; superintendent of trees and parkings, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant superintendent of trees and etAc.ssistant engineers parkings, one thousand two hundred dollars; assistant engineer, two thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, two thousand

one hundred dollars; four assistant engineers, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; two assistant engineers, at one thousand six

hundred dollars each; four assistant engineers, at one thousand five

hundred dollars each; assistant engineer, one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars; assistant engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars; two transitmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each;

transitman, one thousand and fifty dollars; four rodmen, at nine hundred dollars each; eight rodmen, at seven hundred and eighty dollars

each; twelve chainmen, at six hundred and fifty dollars each; draftsman, one thousand five hundred dollars ; draftsman, one thousand

Inspectors, etc.

three hundred and fifty dollars ; two draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; draftsman, one thousand and fifty dollars ; general inspector of sewers, one thousand three hundred dollars; inspector of sewers, one thousand two hundred dollars; bridge

inspector, one thousand two hundred dollars; two inspectors, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; three inspectors of streets, at

one thousand two hundred dollars each; three inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; inspector, one thousand dollars ; inspector, nine hundred dollars; twelve foremen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; foreman, Rock Creek Park, one thousand two

hundred dollars; three subforemen, at one thousand and fifty dollars each; foreman, one thousand and fifty dollars; ten foremen, at nine

Clerks, etc.

hundred dollars each; bridgekeeper, six hundred and fifty dollars; three bridgekeepers, at six hundred dollars each; chief clerk, two

thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars

each; permit clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; assistant

permit clerk, one thousand dollars; index clerk and typewriter, nine hundred dollars; two clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; four clerks, at one thousand two hundred dol-

lars each; two clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; clerk, nine hun-

dred dollars; clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; two clerks, at

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 192. 1911 .

971

seven hundred and fifty dollars each ; clerk, six hundred dollars; messenger, six hundred dollars; six messengers, at five hundred and

forty dollars each; two skilled laborers, at six hundred dollars each; skilled laborer, six hundred and twenty-five dollars; janitor, seven

hundred and twenty dollars; principal steam engineer, one thousand

eight hundred dollars; three steam engineers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; three assistant steam engineers, at one thousand

and fifty dollars each; six oilers, at six hundred dollars each; six firemen, at eight hundred and seventy-five dollars each; inspector, one

thousand four hundred dollars ; storekeeper, nine hundred dollars ; superintendent of stables, one thousand five hundred dollars ; black-

smith, nine hundred and seventy-five dollars ; two watchmen, at six hundred and thirty dollars each; two drivers, at six hundred and thirty dollars each; inspector of gas and meters, two thousand dollars ; assistant inspector of gas and meters, one thousand dollars; two as-

Inspectorofgas, etc.

sistant inspectors of gas and meters, at nine hundred dollars each ;

messenger, six hundred dollars ; in all, one hundred and seventy-

nine thousand eight hundred and ten dollars.

Municipal archi-

MUNICIPAL ARCHITECT'S OFFICE: Municipal architect, whose duty tect's office.

it shall be to prepare or supervise the preparation of plans for, and

superintend the construction of, all municipal buildings, and the repair and improvement of all buildings belonging to the District of Colum-

bia, and serve under the direction of the engineer. commissioner of the District of Columbia, three thousand six hundred dollars ; superintendent of construction, two thousand dollars (now overseer, at
six dollars and fifty cents per diem) ; chief draftsman, one thousand seven hundred dollars; draftsman, one thousand four hundred dol-

Draftsmen, etc.

lars; heating, ventilating, and sanitary engineer, two thousand dol-

lars; draftsman, one thousand three hundred dollars; superintendent

of repairs, one thousand six hundred dollars; assistant superintendent

of repairs, one thousand two hundred dollars; boss carpenter, boss tinner, boss painter, boss plumber, and boss steam fitter, five in all,

at one thousand two hundred dollars each; boss grader, one thousand dollars; clerk, one thousand and fifty dollars; clerk, six hundred and

twenty dollars; copyist (now on the roll at three dollars per diem),

eight hundred and forty dollars; driver, five hundred and forty dol-

lars; for the purchase and maintenance of one gasoline-motor truck, Motor truck.

to be immediately available, two thousand five hundred dollars; in
all, twenty-seven thousand three hundred and fifty dollars. Special assessment
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OFFICE : Special assessment clerk, two thou- ofice

sand dollars; seven clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; clerk, seven hundred and

fifty dollars; in all, twelve thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars. Street-sweeping STREET-SWEEPING OFFICE: Superintendent, two thousand five hun- once.

dred dollars; assistant superintendent and clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand dollars; clerk, nine hundred

dollars; chief inspector, one thousand three hundred dollars; chief

inspector of machine work, one thousand three hundred dollars;

eight inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; ten

inspectors, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; three assistant

inspectors, at nine hundred dollars each; four assistant inspectors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; inspector, one, thousand

dollars; messenger and driver, six hundred dollars; foreman of repairs, one thousand two hundred dollars ; chief clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; stenog-

rapher and clerk, one thousand dollars; blacksmith, nine hundred

dollars; mechanic, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; blacksmith's

helper, seven hundred and twenty dollars; seven dumpmen, at five

hundred and forty dollars each ; two mechanic's helpers, at five hundred and forty dollars each; wheelwright, nine hundred dollars ;

972

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

painter, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, fifty thousand one

one hundred and twenty dollars.

Board ofexaminers, steam engineers.

BOARD OF EXAMINERS, STEAM ENGINEERS : Three members of board

of examiners of steam engineers, at three hundred dollars each, nine

hundred dollars.

Automobile board. AUTOMOBILE BOARD: Secretary or acting secretary of the automo-

bile board, three hundred dollars.

Insurance department.

DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE: Superintendent of insurance, three

thousand five hundred dollars; examiner, one thousand seven hun-

dred dollars; statistician, one thousand seven hundred dollars ; clerk,

one thousand two hundred dollars; stenographer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; temporary clerk híre, one thousand two hundred dol-

Surveyor's office.

lars; in all, ten thousand and twenty dollars. SURVEYOR'S OFFICE : Surveyor, three thousand dollars; assistant
surveyor, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand

two hundred and twenty-five dollars ; three assistant engineers, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; computer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; record clerk, one thousand and fifty dollars; inspector, one thousand two hundred dollars ; draftsman, one thousand two

hundred and twenty-five dollars ; clerk, nine hundred and seventyfive dollars; draftsman, nine hundred dollars ; assistant computer, nine hundred dollars ; two rodmen, at eight hundred and twenty-five

dollars each; three chainmen, at seven hundred dollars each; two chainmen, at six hundred and fifty dollars each; clerk, six hundred and seventy-five dollars; computer and transitman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; rodman, eight hundred and twenty-five dollars ;

in all, twenty-five thousand seven hundred and twenty-five dollars; Temporaryservices. For services of temporary draftsmen, computers, laborers, addi-
tional field party when required, purchase of supplies, care or hire of teams, maintenance of a motor vehicle, five thousand dollars, all
expenditures hereunder to be made only on the written authority of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia;
In all, for surveyor's office, thirty thousand six hundred and fifty dollars. Free Public Library. FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY : Librarian, three thousand five hundred
dollars ; assistant librarian, one thousand five hundred dollars ; chief circulating department, one thousand two hundred dollars ; children's librarian, one thousand dollars ; librarian's secretary, nine hundred dollars ; reference librarian, one thousand dollars; assistant in charge of work for the blind, one thousand two hundred
dollars ; assistant, one thousand dollars ; five assistants, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; four assistants, at six hundred dollars each; three assistants, at five hundred and forty dollars each; copyist, four hundred and eighty dollars ; cataloguer, nine hundred dollars; cataloguer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; cataloguer, six hundred dollars; two cataloguers, at five hundred and forty
dollars each ; stenographer and typewriter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; two assistants, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; six attendants, at five hundred and forty dollars each; five attendants, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; collator, four hundred and eighty dollars; two messengers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; ten pages, at three hundred and sixty dollars
each; two janitors, at four hundred and eighty dollars each, one of whom shall act as night watchman; engineer, one thousand and eighty dollars ; fireman, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; workman, six hundred dollars ; library guard, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; two cloakroom attendants, at three hundred and sixty
dollars each ; six charwomen, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; in all, forty thousand nine hundred and forty dollars.

Substitutes, etc.

For substitutes and other special and temporary service, at the discretion of the librarian, one thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

973

For keeping the library open fifty-two Sundays from two o'clock Sunday opening. postmeridian to nine o'clock postmeridian, five holidays from nine o'clock antemeridian to nine o'clock postmeridian, and for extrá . services three hours on Saturday afternoons during· July, August, and September, one thousand seven hundred dollars.
MISCELLANEOUS, FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY: For purchase of books, Miscellaneous, seven thousand five hundred dollars;
For binding, three thousand five hundred dollars ; For fuel, lighting, fitting up building, including lunch-room equip-
ment, maintenance of motorcycle, and other contingent expenses, eight thousand dollars;
In all, nineteen thousand dollars.

CONTINGENT AND MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES.
For contingent expenses of the government of the District of Colum- Contingent expenses.
bia, namely: For printing, checks, books, law books, books of reference and periodicals, stationery; detection of frauds on the revenue ; surveying instruments and implements; drawing materials; binding, rebinding, repairing, and preservation of records; maintaining and keeping in good order the laboratory and apparatus in the office of the inspector of asphalt and cement; damages ; livery, purchase, and care of horses and carriages or buggies not otherwise provided for; horseshoeing; ice ; repairs to pound and vehicles ; use of bicycles by inspectors in the engineer department not to exceed eight hundred dollars; and other general necessary expenses of District offices, including the sinking-fund office, Board of Charities, excise board, personal- tax board, harbor master, health department, surveyor's office, superintendent of weights, measures, and markets office, and department of insurance, and purchase of new apparatus and laboratory equipment in office of inspector of asphalt and cement, thirtyfour thousand five hundred dollars ; and the commissioners shall so Proviso. apportion this sum as to prevent a deficiency therein: Provided, That Restriction on use horses and vehicles appropriated for in this Act shall not be used by of horses, etc. the commissioners for any other purpose than to visit such points within the District of Columbia as it may be necessary to visit in order to enable them to inspect or inform themselves concerning any public work or property belonging to the said District or to do any other act necessary to the administration of its affairs.
No part ofthe money appropriated by this Act, except appropria- mit on expenditions for the militia, shall be used for the purchase, livery, or maintenance of horses, or for the purchase, maintenance, or repair of buggies or carriages and harness, except as provided for in the appropriation for contingent and miscellaneous expenses or unless the appropriation from which the same is proposed to be paid shall specifically authorize such purchase, livery, maintenance and repair, and except also as hereinafter authorized.
No part of the money appropriated by this Act shall be used for the hiFbiirteedI.nsurance propayment of premium's or other cost of fire insurance.
Stables. For contingent expenses of stables of the engineer department,
including forage, shoeing, purchase and repair, of vehicles, purchase
and repair of harness, blankets, lap robes, purchase of horses, whips, oils, brushes, combs, sponges, chamois skins, buckets, halters, jacks, rubber boots and coats, medicines, and other necessary articles and
expenses, five thousand dollars; and no expenditure on account of
the engineer department for the items named in this paragraph shall
be made from any other fund, except as hereinafter authorized. For postage for strictly official mail matter, ten thousand dollars. Postage. For necessary expenses, including services of collectors or bailiffs, taCxoelsl. ecting personal
in the collection of overdue personal taxes by distraint and sale and otherwise, and for other necessary items, four thousand dollars.

974

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

Judicial expenses. For judicial expenses, including procurement of chains of title, the

printing of briefs in the court of appeals of the District of Columbia, witness fees and expert services in District cases before the supreme

court of said District, five thousand dollars. Coroner's expenses. For purchase and maintenance, hire or livery, of means of trans-

portation for the coroner's office and the morgue, jurors' fees, witness fees, removal of deceased persons, making autopsies, ice, disinfectants, telephone service, and other necessary supplies for the morgue, and

the necessary expenses of holding inquests, including stenographic

Proviso. Inquests limited.

services in taking testimony, and photographing unidentified bodies, four thousand dollars : Provided, That the coroner shall not summon
or hold any jury of inquest over the body of any deceased person where it is known that the deceased came to his death by suicide,

accident, mischance or natural causes ; provided, that in cases where

it is not known that the deceased came to his death by suicide the

Advertising. General.

coroner.may, in his discretion, summon such jury. For general advertising, authorized and required by law, and for
tax and school notices and notices of changes in regulations, four

thousand seven hundred dollars.

Tax-arrearagessales. Vol. 26, p. 24.

For advertising notice of taxes in arrears July first, nineteen hun-

dred and eleven, as required to be given by Act of March nineteenth,

eighteen hundred and ninety, one thousand eight hundred dollars , to

be reimbursed by a charge of fifty cents for each lot or piece of prop-

erty advertised .

Game and fishlaws,

enforcing.

For the enforcement of the game and fish laws of the District of

Columbia, to be expended under the direction of the commissioners,

five hundred dollars.
Removing dangerous, etc., buildings. That not exceeding two thousand dollars of the unexpended bal-

85V, oplp.. 3248,1p, 6. 9151.26; Vol. ances of the appropriations provided in the District appropriation

Ante, p. 382.

Acts for the fiscal years nineteen hundred and eight, nineteen hun-

Vol. 30, p. 923. dred and nine, nineteen hundred and ten, and nineteen hundred and-

eleven, "for carrying out the provisions of the Act approved March

first, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, entitled ' An Act to authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to remove dangerous

or unsafe buildings and parts thereof, and for other purposes,' to

pay the members of the board of survey provided for therein, other

than the inspector of buildings, at a compensation of not to exceed ten dollars for each survey, and to pay the cost of making safe or

Reappropriation. Historical tablets.

removing such buildings upon the refusal or neglect of the owners so to do," are hereby reappropriated and made available during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.
For the erection of suitable tablets to mark historical places in the

District of Columbia, to be expended under the direction of the .

Joint Committee on the Library, five hundred dollars, and the unex-

pended balances of the appropriations made for this purpose by the

VoVlo.l3.53, 4p,pP.P2.8418,96,9115.26; Acts of June twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and six, March second ,

Ante, p. 882,

nineteen hundred and seven, May twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred

and eight, March third , nineteen hundred and nine, and May

eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, respectively, are continued

available for the service of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and

twelve.

Booktypewritersfor recorder of deeds

The recorder of deeds of the District of Columbia is authorized to

alPluorwcehda. se from fees retain, and not pay into the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the District of Columbia, out of the surplus fees and emolu--

ments of his office during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven,

a sum not exceeding three thousand eight hundred and eighty-three .

dollars and fifty cents, and to expend the same in the purchase and

exchange of twenty-five Elliott-Fisher book typewriters and desks for the same.

Copies of to assessor.

wills,

etc.,

For the office of the register of wills: For furnishing to the office of

the assessor copies of wills, petitions, and all necessary papers wherein

title to real estate is involved, nine hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

975

Motor vehicle num. For the purchase of enamel metal or leather identification num- ber tags. ber tags for motor vehicles in the District of Columbia, five hundred
dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be immediately available.
For reconstructing the sand and gravel wharf, in accordance with Sand wharf. the plans on file in the office of the Engineer Commissioner, sixteen thousand five hundred dollars.

The appropriation of ten thousand dollars appropriated for the jurRieepsa. iring fire infiscal year nineteen hundred and ten for r pair of buildings owned Ante, p. 382.

and used by the District of Columbia when a red by fire is hereby

reappropriated and continued available for tl.e fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

For testing materials for fireproof buildings including necessary buTieldsitnginmagtefriiraelpsr.oof labor and implements, under "An Act to regulate the height of build- Vol. 80, p. 922.
ings in the District of Columbia," approved March first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-nine, one hundred dollars.
Hereafter section thirty-seven hundred and nine of the Revised adPvuerrctihsaisnegs. without Statutes of the United States shall not be construed to apply to any R. S., sec. 8709, p.
purchase or service rendered for the District of Columbia when the 733.

aggregate amount involved does not exceed the sum oftwenty-five dollars .

For making surveys to obtain accurate data with reference to old diSvuisrivoenysi. ng old subsubdivisions in the District of Columbia, two thousand five hundred dollars."

For maintenance and repairs to the District of Columbia markets, Repairs to markets. namely: Replacing old benches with sanitary stands, installing mod-

ern plumbing, new floors, and repairing cement floors, new meat blocks and ice boxes, painting, tinning, repairs to pavements, and such other repairs as are deemed necessary to place these markets in a sanitary condition, seven thousand dollars.
For addition to cement warehouse at Fourteenth and D Streets

Cement warehouse.

southwest, on tracks of Pennsylvania Railroad, ten thousand dollars.

For the purchase of construction and other material, to continue stPruurccthiaosnemaotfercioanl-, available and to be reimbursed from the appropriations using material etc.
purchased hereunder, fifty thousand dollars.

For the purchase of apparatus for office of the inspector of asphalts Asphalt apparatus. and cements, five hundred dollars.

IMPROVEMENTS AND REPAIRS.

Improvements ,and repairs.

ASSESSMENT AND PERMIT WORK: For assessment and permit work, three hundred and forty thousand dollars.
For paving roadways under the permit system, ten thousand dollars.

Assessmentand perPaving roadways.

On and after July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, all collections tiDoenps.osit of collecfor work done under the assessment and permit system shall be
deposited by the collector of taxes in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the revenues of the United States and the

District of Columbia in like proportion as the said revenues were

charged with the appropriations provided for the respective purposes.

WORK ON STREETS

AND AVENUES :

For work on streets

and avenues

Work onstreetsand avenues.

named in Appendix L, Book of Estimates, nineteen hundred and

twelve, seventy-nine thousand five hundred dollars, to be expended

in the discretion of the commissioners upon streets and avenues

specified in the schedules named in said appendix and in the aggre-

gate for each schedule as stated herein, namely: GEORGETOWN SCHEDULE: Two thousand dollars.
NORTHWEST SECTION SCHEDULE : Nineteen thousand dollars.

Schedules.

SOUTHWEST SECTION SCHEDULE: Eight thousand five hundred dollars.

976 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRE . SES S S. III. CH. 192. 1911 . S

SOUTHEAST SECTION SCHEDULE (except Thirteenth Street from Pennsylvania Avenue to Potomac Avenue and Pennsylvania Avenue
from Thirteenth to Fifteenth streets) : Nineteen thousand two hundred dollars.

NORTHEAST SECTION SCHEDULE : Thirty thousand eight hundred dollars. · Proviso. Streets paved with Provided, That streets and avenues named in said schedules
 Igian blocks, etc. already paved with Belgian block or granite shall not be paved or

otherwise improved under this appropriation, and the remaining

streets and avenues, except as herein specified, shall be contracted

for in the order in which they appear in said schedules, and be com-

pleted in such order as nearly as practicable, and shall be paved, in

the discretion of the commissioners, instead of being graded and

regulated.

Limit for asphalt

pavements.

Under appropriations contained in this Act no contract shall be

made for making or relaying asphalt pavement at a higher price

han one dollar and eighty cents per square yard for a quality equal to the best laid in the District of Columbia prior to July first, eighteen

hundred and eighty-six, and with same depth of base, nor more than

one dollar and eighty cents per square yard for laying standard

asphalt block pavement equal to the best laid in the District of Proviso.
Increase allowed. Columbia prior to July first, nineteen hundred and four : Provided,

That these conditions as to price and depth of base shall not apply

to those streets on which, in the judgment of the commissioners, by

reason of heavy traffic, poor foundation, or other causes, a pavement

of more than ordinary strength is required, in which case the limit

of price may be increased to two dollars per square yard.

Asphalt to replace

gran block, E Street For removing granite block and repaving with asphalt E Street

NW

northwest from Eleventh Street to Thirteenth Street, seven thousand

dollars.

Grading, etc., Seventeenth Street NW.

For grading and' improving Seventeenth Street northwest from B

Street to E Street, fourteen thousand dollars. Belmont and Fil-

teenth streets NW.

For purchase or condemnation of necessary land, paving, and

Connecting.

construction of walls, steps, and terraces for connecting Belmont

and Fifteenth Streets northwest, in accordance with plans approved

Grading.
Condemnation. County roads. Construction.

by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, eight thousand dollars.
GRADING STREETS, ALLEYS, AND ROADS : For labor and for the
purchase and repair of cars, carts, tools, or the hire of the same, and horses, and the inmates of the Washington Asylum may be used in connection with this work, fifteen thousand dollars.
CONDEMNATION OF STREETS, ROADS, AND ALLEYS : For purchase or condemnation of streets, roads, and alleys, when authorized by law, one thousand ' ollars.
CONSTRUCTIN OF COUNTY ROADS : For construction of county roads and suburban streets, to be disbursed and accounted for as "Construction of county roads and suburban streets," and for that purpose it shall constitute one fund, as follows:
Northeast. Rhode Island Avenue extended, from end of macadam on south side to South Dakota Avenue, grade and improve, nine thousand dollars ;

Northwest. Butternut Street, Georgia Avenue to Fifth Street, and Sixth Street from Butternut Street to Cedar Street, and Fifth Street from Butternut Street to Cedar Street, grade and improve, eight thousand two hundred dollars;
Southeast. Streets in Anacostia, grade and improve, three thou-. sand dollars ; .
Northeast. Seventeenth Street, Rosedale Street to Benning Road, improve, four thousand five hundred dollars ; .
Northwest. Mount Pleasant Street, Sixteenth Street to Park Road, grade and improve, twelve thousand dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

977....

Northwest. Blair Road, Cedar Street to District line, grade and
improve, four thousand four hundred dollars ; Northwest. Phelps Place north of S Street, pave, four thousand
five hundred dollars;
Northwest. Fessenden Street, Belt Road to Wisconsin Avenue, grade and improve, five thousand four hundred dollars;
Northwest. Keefer Place, Georgia Avenue to Sixth Street, and Lamont Street, Georgia Avenue to Sixth Street, and Sixth Street, Keefer Place to Lamont Street, grade and improve, nine thousand dollars ;

Northwest. Sixteenth Street, Kennedy Street to Montague Street , grade and improve, four thousand six hundred dollars ;

Northwest. Twenty-third Street, north of Calvert Street, grade and improve, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars;

Northwest. Macomb Street, Thirty-sixth Street to Wisconsin Avenue, grade and improve, three thousand dollars;
Northwest. Michigan Avenue, from First Street westward, grade and improve, five thousand seven hundred dollars;

Northeast. Kearney Street, Thirteenth Street to Fourteenth Street, grade and improve, two thousand three hundred dollars;
Northwest. Rock Creek Church Road, Georgia Avenue to Fifth Street, grade and improve, eight thousand eight hundred dollars ;
Northeast. Seventeenth Street, from Newton Street to Hamlin Street, to complete grading and improving, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

Northeast. Irving Street, Thirteenth Street to Seventeenth Street, grade, eight thousand four hundred dollars ;
Northwest. Massachusetts Avenue extended, Wisconsin Avenue

to Idaho Avenue, grade and improve, nine thousand four hundred dollars ;
Northwest. Kennedy Street, Fourteenth Street to Sixteenth Street, grade and improve, five thousand six hundred dollars ;
Northwest. T Street, Second Street to Rhode Island Avenue, pave, four thousand one hundred dollars ;
Southeast. Fourteenth Street, from Good Hope Road to V Street, grade and improve (bituminous macadam), seven thousand dollars;
In all, one hundred and twenty-three thousand six hundred and fifty dollars.
REPAIRS STREETS, AVENUES, AND ALLEYS : For current work of

Repairs, streets, etc.

repairs of streets, avenues, and alleys, including resurfacing and repairs to asphalt pavements with the same or other not inferior material, and maintenance of motor vehicle for use of Engineer Commissioner and his assistant, of which sum one hundred thousand dollars. shall be immediately available, four hundred and twenty-five thou sand dollars; and this appropriation shall be available for repairing the pavements of the street railways when necessary; the amounts thus expended shall be collected from such railroad company as provided by section five of "An Act providing a permanent form of goy-

, Vol. 20, p. 105.

ernment for the District of Columbia," approved June eleventh,
eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, and shall be deposited to the credit of the appropriation for the fiscal year in which they are collected .

The Anacostia and Potomac River Railroad Company is hereby maAncacRoisvteira aRnadilProotaodauthorized and required to remove its tracks from Maryland Avenue Company southwest, between Third and Four-and-a-half Streets, and from Relocation oftracks.

Third Street between Maryland Avenue and B Street southwest, and to relocate the same in B Street southwest between Maryland Avenue and Third Street, and to repave the street space from which said tracks are removed, all in accordance with plans to be approved by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and to their satisfaction.

978

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

Sidewalksand curbs. For replacing and repairing sidewalks and curbs around public res-

McMillan Park.

ervations and municipal buildings, ten thousand dollars. For setting curb and laying sidewalk on the east side of McMillan

Park, two thousand dollars.

County roads, repairs.

REPAIRS COUNTY ROADS : For current work of repairs of county

roads and suburban streets, including the maintenance of one motor

vehicle for the use of the superintendent of county roads and one

motor truck for the use of the field party engaged in the survey work

pertaining to the construction and repair of county roads, one

hundred and forty thousand dollars, of which sum twenty thousand

dollars shall be immediately available.

Bridges.

BRIDGES : For construction and repairs of bridges, sixteen thousand

dollars.

Highway bridge.

Highway bridge across Potomac River: Two draw operators, at

one thousand and twenty dollars each; draw operator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; four watchmen, at six hundred dollars each ; labor, one thousand five hundred dollars ; lighting, power, and mis-

Anacostia Bridge.

cellaneous supplies, and expenses of every kind necessarily incident to the operation and maintenance of the bridge and approaches, nine thousand three hundred and forty dollars ; in all, sixteen thousand dollars.
Operation of the Anacostia River Bridge: For employees, miscellaneous supplies, and expenses of every kind necessary to the

operation and maintenance of the bridge, five thousand six hundred

dollars.

Streets, etc., adja

cent to Zoological For grading and improving a connecting street between the

Park.

intersection of Sixteenth Street and Columbia Road and the Quarry

prGorvaidnig.ng and im- Road entrance to the Zoological Park; for grading and improving

Lanier Place from Quarry Road to the said connecting street ; for grading and improving Eighteenth Street from Summit Place to the

said connecting street; for grading and improving Geneseo Place between Eighteenth Street and Quarry Road; and for grading, im-

proving, and constructing steps in Quarry Road, all in accordance with plans on file in the office of the Engineer Commissioner of the

District of Columbia, sixty-seven thousand dollars.

New highway plan authorized.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized and

directed to prepare a new highway plan for that portion of the

District of Columbia lying between Mount Pleasant Street, Irving

Vol. 27, p. 532.

Street, Adams Mill Road, Quarry Road, and Columbia Road, under the provisions contained in the Act of Congress approved March

second, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, providing for a permanent

Vol. 30, p. 519.
Provisos. Width, etc.
Condemnation. Vol. 34, p. 151.

system of highways . in the District of Columbia, as amended by the Act of Congress of June twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight: Provided, That Lanier Place and Eighteenth Street may be extended under this authority with a minimum width of forty feet : Provided further, That under and in accordance with the provisions of subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of Law for the Dis-

trict of Columbia, the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are

authorized and directed to institute in the supreme court of the

District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the land that may be necessary to open the connecting street above referred to, as

well as Lanier Place and Eighteenth Street within the limits above

described, as shown on plans filed in the office of the Engineer Com-

benDeafmitasg.es assessedas missioner of the District of Columbia : And providedfurther, That of the amount found to be due and awarded by the jury in said proceedings as damages for and in respect of the land to be condemned

for the extension of Lanier Place, Eighteenth Street, and the con-

necting street above described, plus the.cost and expenses of the proceeding taken pursuant hereto, not less than two-thirds shall be

assessed by the jury as benefits.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

979

There is appropriated an amount sufficient to pay the cost and Expenses.
expenses of the condemnation proceeding taken pursuant hereto and for the payment of the amounts awarded as damages. The amounts Awards, assessed as benefits when collected shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the revenues of the District of Columbia and of the United States in equal parts.
Toward constructing a bridge across Rock Creek on the line of crBereikdgate aacSrtorsesetR. ock
Street, including the approaches thereto; and the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for the construction of said bridge and its approaches at a
total cost not to exceed two hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars, to be paid for from time to time as appropriations therefor may be made by law, one hundred thousand dollars.
And the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are further Condemning land for widening, etc., Q
authorized and directed, under and in accordance with the provisions street NW.
ofsubchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of Lawfor the District. of Columbia, within six months after the passage of this Act, to insti- Vol. 84, p. 151.
tute in the supreme court of the District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the land that may be necessary for the widening and extension of Q Street from its terminus east of Twenty-eighth Street to Twenty-seventh Street, with a width of sixty feet, and from Twenty-seventh Street to Twenty-third Street with a width of
ninety feet, upon such lines as the said commissioners may deem Proviso. best forthe public interest: Provided, however, That the entire amount Damagesassessed as found to be due and awarded by the jury in said proceedings as dam- benefit.s
ages for and in respect of the land to be condemned for said widening
and extension, plus the cost and expenses of said proceedings, shail be assessed by the jury as benefits.
And there is hereby appropriated an amount sufficient to pay the Expenses. necessary costs and expenses of the said condemnation proceedings taken pursuant hereto and for the payment of the amounts awarded Paymentofawards. as damages. The assessments for benefits when collected to be
covered into the Treasury in equal parts to the credit of the revenues of the District of Columbia and of the United States.

SEWERS.

Sewers.

For cleaning and repairing sewers, and basins, sixty-five thousand Cleaning, etc. dollars.

For operation and maintenance of the sewage pumping service, Pumping station.

including repairs to boilers, machinery, and pumping stations, and

the employment of mechanics, laborers, and watchman, the purchase

of coal, oils, waste, and other supplies, and for the maintenance of

motor vehicles, forty-four thousand five hundred dollars.

For main and pipe sewers and receiving basins, sixty-five thousand Mainand pipe. dollars.

For suburban sewers, one hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Suburban.

For purchase or condemnation of rights of way for construction, Rights of way.

maintenance, and repair of public sewers, one thousand dollars, or
so much thereof as may be necessary.. inter
Anacostia main intercepter: For continuing the construction of the ceApntaerc.ostia
Anacostia main intercepter along the Anacostia River between the

outfall sewer, sewage-disposal system, at Poplar Point, and Ben-

nings, District of Columbia, twenty thousand dollars. " Rock Creek mair intercepter: For continuing the extension of the ceRptoecrk. Creek inter-
Rock Creek main intercepter from P Street to Military Road, forty thousand dollars.

For completing the construction of the boundary to Brookland ceEpatesrt. side inter

division of the east side intercepter, sewage-disposal system, as far

as Bunker Hill Road, forty-nine thousand dollars.

· 980 Streets.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 . STREETS .

Cleaning, etc.

SPRINKLING, SWEEPING, AND CLEANING: For sprinkling, sweeping, and cleaning streets, avenues, alleys, and suburban streets, including

rent of storage rooms; maintenance and repairs of stable, purchase and maintenance of horses; purchase, maintenance, and repair of

wagons and harness, allowance to inspectors for maintenance of

horses and vehicles used in the performance of official duties, not to exceed thirty dollars per month for each inspector, and necessary

Provisos Contracts.

incidental expenses, and work done under contract, as well as hand work done under the immediate direction of the commissioners with-
out contract: Provided, That whenever it shall appear to the commissioners that said latter work can not be done under their imme-

diate direction at nineteen cents or less per thousand square yards,

in accordance with the specifications under which the same was last

advertised for bids, it shall at once be their duty to advertise to let said work under said specifications to the lowest responsible bidder,

and if the same can not be procured to be done at a price not exceed-

ing twenty cents per thousand square yards, they may continue to do said work under their immediate direction, in accordance with said

ovAeurtchoonrtirtaycttwoortka.ke specifications: Provided further, That whenever it shall appear to said commissioners that the work now performed under contract,

namely, street sweeping and cleaning alleys and unimproved streets, can, in their judgment, be performed under their immediate direc-

tion more advantageously to the District, then, in that event, said

-commissioners are hereby authorized to perform any part or all of said work in such manner, and to employ all necessary personal mePnutr,cehtac.se of equip services, and purchase and maintain such street-cleaning apparatus, horses, harness, carts, wagons, tools, and equipment . as may be

necessary for the purpose, and of this appropriation the sum of forty thousand dollars is hereby made immediately available, two hundred

and sixty thousand dollars, and the commissioners shall so apportion

this appropriation as to prevent a deficiency therein.

Removal of snow and ice. ·

For cleaning snow and ice from streets, sidewalks, cross walks, and

gutters, in the discretion of the commissioners, including services, ten

thousand dollars.

Disposal of city refuse.

DISPOSAL OF CITY REFUSE: For the collection and disposal of

garbage and dead animals ; miscellaneous refuse and ashes from pri-

vate residences in the city of Washington and the more densely

populated suburbs ; for collection and disposal of night soil in the

District of Columbia, and for the payment of necessary inspection,

livery of horses, and incidental expenses, one hundred and seventy-

nine thousand nine hundred and forty-five dollars.

8table, etc., for street cleaning de-

For the purchase or condemnation of a site or sites, and for the

partment.

erection of a building or buildings thereon for a stable and storerooms

for the street-cleaning department of the District of Columbia and

for the rebuilding of the present condemned stable of said depart-

ment, to be immediately available, one hundred and twenty-eight thousand six hundred dollars.

Parking commission.

PARKING COMMISSION : For contingent expenses, including laborers,

trimmers, nurserymen, repairmen, and teamsters, cart hire, trees,

tree boxes, tree stakes, tree straps, tree labels, planting and care of

trees on city and suburban streets, care of trees, tree spaces, and miscellaneous items, five thousand dollars of which shall be immedi-

ately available for labor and for the purchase of machinery and mate-

Bathing beach.

rials to exterminate insects injurious to trees, forty-two thousand five hundred dollars.
BATHING BEACH: For superintendent, six hundred dollars ; watch-

man, four hundred and eighty, dollars ; temporary services, supplies, and maintenance, two thousand dollars ; for repairs and improve- .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

981

ments to bathhouses, bathing pools, and grounds, one thousand two

hundred dollars; in all, four thousand two hundred and eighty dollars, to be immediately available.
PUBLIC SCALES : For replacement and repair of public scales, two Public efales. hundred dollars.
PLAYGROUNDS: For maintenance, repairs, including labor, equip- tePnlaanycger.ounds, mainment, supplies, and necessary incidental and contingent expenses, to be immediately available, three thousand dollars.

For salaries: Clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; supervisor,

ten months, at one hundred and fifty dollars per month; directors, assistant directors, and watchmen, to be employed not exceeding

seven months, as follows : Nine directors, at seventy-five dollars per

month each; two assistant directors, at sixty dollars per month each ; one assistant director, at fifty dollars per month; one watchman, at

twenty-five dollars per month. To be employed not exceeding three months, as follows : One director, at seventy-five dollars per month ;

six assistant directors, at sixty dollars per month each; three assist-

ant directors, at fifty dollars per month each; five assistants, at forty-

five dollars per month each; eight assistants, at forty dollars per

month each; two watchmen, at forty-five dollars per month each; and seven watchmen, at forty-five dollars per month each for twelve

months; in all, fifteen thousand eight hundred and seventy dollars,

which sum shall be paid wholly out of the revenues of the District reWvheonluelsy.fromDistrict

of Columbia.

INTERIOR PARK:

Interior For the condemnation of land in the interior of square 534.

park,

square five hundred and thirty-four, within the limiting lines shown .

on approved plans in the office of the Engineer Commissioner of the

District of Columbia, and for the development of the land so acquired as an interior park: Provided, That the said land shall be condemned PCroonvidseom. nation of by a proceeding in rem in accordance with the provisions of sub- lands. chapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of Law for the District of Vol. 34, p. 151.

Columbia within six months after the date of the passage of this Act: Assessment of bene-
And provided further, That of the amount found to be due and fits.
awarded by the jury in said condemnation proceedings as damages

for and in respect of the land to be condemned, plus the cost and expense of said proceeding, not less than one-third thereof shall be

assessed by the jury as benefits, seventy-eight thousand dollars.

Public convenience

PUBLIC CONVENIENCE STATIONS : For maintenance of public con- stations.

venience stations, including compensation of necessary employees,

eleven thousand two hundred and fifty dollars. Insanitary build-
CONDEMNATION OF INSANITARY BUILDINGS: For all expenses neces- ings. · sary and incident to the enforcement of an Act entitled "An Act to Vol. 34, p. 157.

create a board for the condemnation of insanitary buildings in the

District of Columbia, and for other purposes," approved May first,

nineteenhundred and six, including personal services, when authorized by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, two thousand five hundred dollars.

ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT.

Electrical department.

Electrical engineer, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant Salaries. electrical engineer who shall hereafter perform the duties of the electrical engineer in the absence or disability of the latter and shall have the same qualifications as to ability and technical knowledge asis · required by law of the head of the department, two thousand dollars ; three electrical inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; inspector of lamps, one thousand dollars ; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two draftsmen, at one thousand dollars each; three telegraph operators, at one thousand dollars each; three in-
spectors, at nine hundred dollars each ; expert repairman, nine hun-
88740°--vol 36, r 1-11-64

982

SIXTY 'FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

dred and sixty dollars ; four repair men, at nine hundred dollars each ;

three telephone operators, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each;

two laborers, at four hundred dollars each ; electrical inspector, two

thousand dollars ; electrical inspector, one thousand eight hundred

dollars ; electrical inspector, one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ; cable splicer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand two hundred

dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand one hundred and twenty-five

dollars each; clerk, one thousand and fifty dollars ; clerk, seven

hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant cable splicer, six hundred and

twenty dollars ; assistant repair man, six hundred and twenty dollars ;

two assistant repair men, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; two laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; laborer, four hundred

and sixty dollars; four telephone operators, at five hundred and forty

dollars each; telephone operator, four hundred and fifty dollars ;

storekeeper, eight hundred and seventy-five dollars ; laborer, six hundred and thirty dollars ; in all, forty-six thousand four hundred

Supplies.

and ninety-five dollars . For, general supplies, repairs, new batteries, and battery supplies,

telephone rental and purchase, wire for extension of the telegraph and telephone service, repairs of lines and instruments, purchase of poles, tools, insulators, brackets, pins, hardware, cross arms, ice, record

books, stationery, printing, livery, horses and harness, washing,

blacksmithing, forage, extra labor, new boxes, rent of storeroom, and

other necessary items, thirteen thousand five hundred dollars.

Placingwiresunder-

ground.

For placing wires of fire-alarm, telegraph, police-patrol, and tele-

phone service underground in existing conduits, including cost of

cables, terminal boxes, and posts, connections to and between existing

conduits, manholes, handholes, posts for fire-alarm and police boxes,

extra labor, and other necessary items, seven thousand dollars, to be

immediately available.

Police-patrol system.

For extension of police-patrol system, including purchase of new

boxes, purchase and erection of the necessary poles, cross arms, insu-

lators, pins, braces, wire, cable, conduit connections, extra labor, and

other necessary items, three thousand dollars.

Lighting.

LIGHTING: For the purchase, installation, and maintenance of

public lamps, lamp-posts, street designations, lanterns, and fixtures

All expenses.

of all kinds on streets, avenues, roads, alleys, and public spaces, and for all necessary expenses in connection therewith, including rental of

Post p. 1007.

stables and storerooms, this sum to be expended in accordance with the provisions of section seven of this Act and other laws applicable

thereto, three hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars.

Potomac Electric Power Co.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are empowered to

Settlement of arc effect a settlement for arc lighting under the existing contract with

light contract.

the Potomac Electric Power Company from the date of said contract

to the date of approval of this Act and report the same to Congress .

Washington Aqueduct.

WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT.

Maintenance. Filtration plant.

For operation, including salaries of all necessary employees, maintenance, and repair of the Washington Aqueduct and its accessories, including Conduit road , the McMillan Park reservoir, and Washington Aqueduct tunnel, and also including the purchase and maintenance of one motor truck, horses, vehicles, and harness, and the care and maintenance of the stable, thirty-three thousand dollars .
For care, including salaries of all necessary employees, maintenance, and operation of the Washington Aqueduct, District of Columbia, filtration plant, and the plant for the preliminary treatment of the water supply, and for each and every purpose connected therewith, ninety-one thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

983

For emergency fund, to be used only in case of a serious break Emergency fund.

requiring immediate repair in one of the important aqueduct or
filtration plant structures, such as a dam, conduit, tunnel, bridge, building, or important piece of machinery; all expenditures from this appropriation to be reported in detail to Congress, five thousand dollars.
McMillan Park For continuation of parking grounds around McMillan Park reser- reservoir. voir, formerly known as Washington City reservoir, two thousand dollars. For beginning the lining of such portions of the unlined sections of Lining tunnels.
the tunnels of the Washington Aqueduct as may be necessary to pre-
vent leakage and the disintegration and fall of rock, eight thousand dollars.

To complete the investigation and surveys for increasing the water suIpnpclrye.asing water
supply by investigations and surveys to determine the availability Investigationof
and adaptability of the Patuxent River as a source of water supply Patuxent River. for the District of Columbia, three thousand dollars.
reserFor beginning remodeling the Georgetown reservoir, Washington Georgetown

Aqueduct, to complete the works for the preliminary treatment of the Remodeling, water supply, and for each and every purpose connected therewith, fifty thousand dollars.

For the preservation and repair of Cabin John Bridge, including the installation of a metal lining to prevent leakage in the portion of
the Washington Aqueduct passing through the bridge, of which
twenty thousand dollars shall be immediately available, thirty-five thousand dollars.

CRaebpaiinrJ, eothc.nBridge.

ROCK CREEK PARK.

Rock Creek Park.

For care and improvement of Rock Creek Park, and of the Piney Branch Parkway between Sixteenth Street and Rock Creek Park, which parkway shall hereafter be under the jurisdiction and control of the board of control of Rock Creek Park, exclusive of building for superintendent's residence, to be expended under the direction of the board of control of said park, twenty thousand dollars.

Care, etc.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Public schools.

OFFICERS : Superintendent of public schools, five thousand dollars ; SOaffliacreiress.. two assistant superintendents, at three thousand dollars each ; director of intermediate instruction, thirteen supervising principals, and

supervisor of manual training, fifteen in all, at a minimum salary of

two , thousand two hundred dollars each; secretary, two thousand dollars; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one

thousand dollars each ; clerk to carry out the provisions of the childlabor law, nine hundred dollars; two stenographers, at eight hundred · and forty dollars each ; messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

in all, fifty-two thousand seven hundred dollars...

ATTENDANCE OFFICERS: Two attendance officers, at six hundred Attendance officers.

dollars each; attendance officer, nine hundred dollars ; in all, two thousand one hundred dollars.
TEACHERS: For one thousand seven hundred and fifty teachers, to be assigned as follows:

Teachers.

Principals of normal, high, and manual training schools, nine in all,

at a minimum salary of two thousand dollars each;

Director of primary instruction, at a minimum salary of one thou-

sand eight hundred dollars ;

Directors of music, drawing, physical culture, domestic science,

domestic art, and kindergartens, six in all, at a minimum salary of one thousand five hundred dollars each ;

984

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

Assistant director of primary instruction, at a minimum salary of one thousand four hundred-dollars ;

Assistant directors of music, drawing, physical culture, domestic science, domestic art, and kindergartens, six in all, at a minimum salary of one thousand three hundred dollars each ;
Heads of departments in high and manual training schools in Group B of class six, twelve in all, at a minimum salary of one thousand nine hundred dollars each ;
Teachers of the normal, high, and manual training schools promoted for superior work, Group B of class six, seven in all, at a minimum salary of one thousand nine hundred dollars each.
Teachers in Group A of class six, including two principals of grade manual training schools, two hundred and sixteen in all, at a minimum salary of one thousand dollars each ;
Teachers in class five, one hundred and sixty-one in all, at a mini-

mum salary of nine hundred and fifty dollars each; Teachers in class four, four hundred and thirty-eight in all, at a

minimum salary of eight hundred dollars each; Teachers in class three, four hundred and eighty-eight in all, at a
minimum salary of six hundred and fifty dollars each ; Teachers in class two, three hundred and thirty-eight in all, at a
minimum salary of six hundred dollars each ; Teachers in class one, sixty-six in all, at a minimum salary of five
hundred dollars each ;

Special beginning teacher in the normal school, eight hundred dollars ;

Librarians clerks.

In all for teachers, one million three hundred and forty-seven thousand two hundred and fifty dollars. and LIBRARIANS AND CLERKS : Twenty-three librarians and clerks, to be assigned as follows:
Librarian in class four, one at a minimum salary of eight hundred dollars ;
Librarians and clerks in class three, twelve in all, at a minimum

salary of six hundred and fifty dollars each ; Librarians and clerks in class two, five in all, at a minimum salary
of six hundred dollars each ;

Longevity pay. Vol. 34, p. 320. PArdidnictiipoanlasl. pay.

Librarians and clerks in class one, five in all, at a minimum salary of five hundred dollars each;
In all for librarians and clerks, fourteen thousand one hundred dollars .
LONGEVITY PAY: Longevity pay for director of intermediate instruction, supervising principals, supervisor of manual training, principals of the normal , high, and manual training schools , heads of departments, director and assistant director of primary instruction, directors and assistant directors of drawing, physical culture, music, domestic science, domestic art, and kindergartens, teachers, clerks , librarians and clerks, and librarians to be paid in strict conformity with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to fix and regulate the salaries of teachers, school officers, and other employees of the board of education of the District of Columbia," approved June twentieth, nineteen hundred and six, three hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars.
ALLOWANCE TO PRINCIPALS : Allowance to principals of grade school buildings for services rendered as such, in addition to their

Vol. 34, p. 320.

grade salary, to be paid in strict conformity with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to fix and regulate the salaries of teachers, school officers, and other employees of the board of education of the District of Columbia," approved June twentieth, nineteen hundred

and six, thirty-six thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.

Provisos. No sex discrimina-

Provided, That in assigning salaries to teachers no discrimination

tion.

shall be made between male and female teachers employed in the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

985-

same grade and performing a like class of duties ; and it shall not be.

lawful to pay, or authorize or require to be paid, from any of the salaries of teachers herein provided, any portion or percentage thereof for the purpose of adding to salaries of higher or lower grades.
Provided further, That no teacher, of the whole number appro- plRoeysmterinctt.ion on empriated for herein, shall be employed as, or required to discharge the duties of, a clerk or librarian.
Night schools. NIGHT SCHOOLS : Salaries of teachers and janitors of night schools, Salaries. including teachers of industrial, commercial, and trade instruction,

and teachers and janitors of night schools may also be teachers and janitors of day schools, seventeen thousand five hundred dollars.

For contingent and other necessary expenses of night schools, Equipment.
including equipment and the purchase of all necessary articles and supplies for classes in industrial, commercial, and trade instruction, two thousand five hundred dollars.
KINDERGARTEN SUPPLIES: For kindergarten supplies, two thou- pliKeisn.dergarten supsand eight hundred dollars.

JANITORS AND CARE OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS: Superintendent ofJanbiutiolrdsinagnsd cad

of janitors, one thousand two hundred dollars;

grounds.

Central High School and annex, janitor, nine hundred dollars; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at three

hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, two thousand and forty. dollars ;

Business High School, janitor, nine hundred dollars; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars ; two laborers, at three hundred and

sixty dollars each; in all, two thousand and forty dollars ; Jefferson School, janitor, eight hundred dollars; two laborers, at

three hundred and sixty dollars each ; in all, one thousand five hundred and twenty dollars;

Western High School, janitor, nine hundred dollars ; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at three hundred and ,

sixty dollars each; in all, two thousand one hundred and forty dollars;

Franklin School, janitor, eight hundred and forty dollars; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars ; two laborers, at three hundred and

sixty dollars each; in all, one thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars ;

Eastern High School and Stevens School, two janitors, at nine hundred dollars each; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars ;

laborer, three hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, two thousand five hundred and eighty dollars ;

McKinley Manual Training School, janitor, nine hundred dollars ;

engineer and instructor in steam engineering, one thousand two

hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; assistant janitor, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars ; two laborers, at three hundred and

sixty dollars each; in all, four thousand six hundred and eighty dollars ;
Armstrong Manual Training School, janitor, nine hundred dollars;

assistant janitor, seven hundred and twenty dollars; engineer and

instructor in steam engineering, one thousand dollars; assistant

engineer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, four thousand and sixty dollars;

M Street High School and Douglass and Simmons Schools, engi-

neer, one thousand dollars ; janitor, nine hundred dollars ; laborer, four hundred and twenty dollars ; three laborers, at three hundred

and sixty dollars each; in all, three thousand four hundred dollars ;

Emery, the new Mott, Henry D. Cooke, Van Buren, and Wallach Schools, five janitors, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; five

laborers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, six thousand dollars ;

986

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

Birney and annex, Brookland, Bryan, Curtis, Dennison, Force,

Gage, Gales, Garfield, Garnet, Grant, Henry, Johnson and annex,

Langdon, Lincoln, Lovejoy, Miner, Monroe and addition, Peabody, Seaton, Sumner, Webster, and Strong John Thompson Schools,

twenty-three in all, twenty-three janitors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; twenty-three laborers, at three hundred dollars

each ; in all, twenty-three thousand four hundred and sixty dollars ; Abbott, Berrett, Sayles J. Bowen, Brightwood, John F. Cook,

Cranch, old Mott, Randall, Syphax, and Tenley Schools, in all, ten janitors, at seven hundred dollars each ;

Adams, Addison, Ambush, Amidon, Anthony Bowen, Arthur, Banneker, Bell , Benning (white) , Blair, Blake, Blow, Bradley, Brent,

Briggs, Bruce, Buchanan, Carberry, Cardozo, Chevy Chase, Congress

Heights, Corcoran, Dent, Eaton, Edmunds, Eckington, Filmore,

French, Garrison, Giddings, Greenleaf, Harrison, Hayes, Hilton, Hubbard, Hyde, Jackson, Jones, Ketcham, Langston, Lenox, Logan,

Ludlow, Madison, Magruder, Maury, Montgomery, Morgan, Morse, Patterson, Payne, Petworth, Phelps, Phillips, Pierce, Polk, Potomac,

Powell, Ross, Slater, Smallwood, Takoma, Taylor, Toner, Towers,

Twining, Tyler, Van Ness, Webb, Weightman, Wheatly, Wilson, Woodburn, and Wormly Schools, and one eight-room building located north of Spring Road, west of Thirteenth Street, and one

eight-room building located at Randle Highlands, in all, seventy-six janitors, at six hundred dollars each ;

Ivy City School, and one six-room building to be located on site

of old High Street School, and one six-room building to be located

on grounds of Cardozo School, in all, three janitors, at five hundred and forty dollars each;

Brightwood Park and Kenilworth Schools, two janitors, at three hundred and sixty dollars each;

Bunker Hill, Deanwood, Hamilton, McCormick, Orr, Reno,

Reservoir, Smothers, Stanton, and Threlkeld Schools, in all, ten

janitors, at three hundred dollars each; Conduit Road, Chain Bridge Road, Fort Road, Fort Slocum,
Military Road, and Burrville Schools, in all, six janitors, at one

hundred and fifty dollars each ;

In all, one hundred and thirteen thousand eight hundred and forty dollars.

For care of smaller buildings and rented rooms, including cooking

and manual-training schools, wherever located, at a rate not to

exceed seventy-two dollars per annum for the care of each school-

room, ten thousand dollars.

Medical inspectors. Dentists added.

MEDICAL INSPECTORS : Twelve medical inspectors of public schools,

two of whom shall be dentists, and four shall be of the colored race,

Proviso. Competitive exami.

at five hundred dollars each, six thousand dollars :

Provided, That said

nation, etc.

inspectors shall be appointed by the commissioners only after com-

petitive examination, and shall have had at least five years' experience in the practice of medicine or dentistry in the District of Columbia,

and shall perform their duties under the direction of the health

officer and according to rules formulated from time to time. by him,

which shall be subject to the approval of the board of education

Miscellaneous. Rent.

and the commissioners. MISCELLANEOUS: For rent of school buildings, repair shop, storage
and stock rooms, sixteen thousand dollars.

etcT.emporary rooms, For amount required to rent, equip, and care for temporary rooms

for classes above the second grade, now on half time, and to provide

for the estimated increased enrollment that may be caused by_the

operation of the compulsory-education law and for the purchase of all necessary articles and supplies to be used in the course of in-

struction which may be provided for atypical and ungraded classes, thirteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

987

For repairs and improvements to school buildings and grounds and Repairs, etc.

for repairing and renewing heating, plumbing, and ventilating apparatus, seventy thousand dollars, to be immediately available.
For special repairs to and changes in plumbing in existing school etPc.lumbing repairs, buildings, twenty-five thousand dollars: A detailed statement shall

be submitted to Congress of the expenditure of the foregoing sum,

and for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve estimates shall be submitted in detail as to the particular school buildings requiring

unusual repairs of and changes in plumbing.

For the purchase and repair of tools, machinery, material, and peMnasnesu.altrainingexbooks, and apparatus to be used in connection with instruction in

manual training, and for incidental expenses connected therewith, twenty-three thousand five hundred dollars.
For fuel, gas, and electric light and power, eighty-five thousand dollars.

Fuel, lights, etc.

For furniture, including also clocks, pianos, and window shades for new school buildings, additions to buildings, kindergartens, and also tools and furnishings for manual-training, cooking, and sewing schools, as follows: One eight-room building on Farragut Street northwest, two thousand dollars; one twelve-room building at Eighth and T Streets northwest, three thousand dollars; one eight-room building at Randle Highlands, two thousand dollars; one six-room building

Furniture, etc.

at Ivy City, one thousand five hundred dollars; one six-room manualtraining building on site of High Street School, one thousand five hundred dollars; one six-room manual-training building on grounds of Cardozo School, one thousand five hundred dollars; six kinder-

gartens, two thousand dollars ; two manual-training shops, six hundred dollars ; one sewing school, one hundred and fifty dollars; and one cooking school, three hundred dollars; in all, fifteen thousand dollars, to be immediately available.

For contingent expenses, including furniture and repairs of same,.Contingentexpenses. stationery, printing, ice, purchase and repair of equipment for highschool cadets, and other necessary items not otherwise provided for, including an allowance of three hundred dollars each for livery of

horse or garage of an automobile for the superintendent of schools, and for the superintendent of janitors, and including not exceeding one thousand dollars for books, books of reference, and periodicals, forty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.

For purchase of pianos for school buildings and kindergarten Planos. schools, at an average cost not to exceed three hundred dollars each, one thousand dollars.

For text-books and school supplies for use of pupils of the first eight grades, who at the time are not supplied with the same, to be distributed by the superintendent of public schools under regulations to be made by the board of education of the District of Columbia, and for the necessary expenses of the purchase, distribution, and preservation of said text-books and supplies, including one bookkeeper and

Supplies to pupils.

custodian of text-books and supplies, at one thousand two hundred dollars, and one assistant, at six hundred dollars, sixty-eight thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That the board of education, in its discretion, is authorized to make exchanges of such books and other educational publications now on hand as may not be desirable for use.
For purchase of United States flags, eight hundred dollars. For equipment, grading, and improving six additional school playgrounds, one thousand dollars.

EPrxocvhiasno.ges.
Flags. Playgrounds.

For maintenance and repairing thirty playgrounds now established, one thousand five hundred dollars.

For utensils, material, and labor, for establishment and mainte'nance of school gardens ; one thousand two hundred dollars.

988

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

Telephones to new school buildings.

For extending the telephone system to new school buildings,

including the cost of the necessary wire, cable, poles, cross arms, braces, conduit connections, extra labor, and other necessary items,

to be expended under the electrical department, one thousand four

hundred and twenty-five dollars.

Physics department apparatus.

For purchase of apparatus and for extending the equipment and

for the maintenance of the physics department in the Central, Eastern,

Western, and M Street high schools, three thousand dollars.

Chemistry and biological laboratories.

For the purchase of fixtures, apparatus, specimens, and materials

for the laboratories of the departments of chemistry and biology in

the Central, Eastern, Western , Business, and M Street High Schools,

Normal School Number One, and Normal School Number Two, and

the installation of the same, two thousand one hundred dollars. Portable school-

houses.

Any unexpended balances in the " Act making appropriations to

Use ofbalances. provide for the expenses of the government of the District of ColumAnte. p. 397.

bia for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and

eleven, and for other purposes," to rent, equip, and care for tem-

porary rooms for classes above the second grade now on half time,

and to provide for the estimated increased enrollment that may be caused by the operation of the compulsory-education law, is hereby

reappropriated and made immediately available for the purchase, erection, equipment, and maintenance of portable schoolhouses for

Buildings and temporary use.

grounds.

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS : For improvement and repair of Chevy

Chase School, one thousand three hundred and twenty-five dollars.

For the completion of a normal school building on lots seventy-six to one hundred and six of Parker and Pulsifer subdivision of Colum-

bia Heights, one hundred and fifty-seven thousand four hundred dollars.

For the completion of a twelve-room building west of Seventh

Street and north of Q Street, fifty thousand dollars.

For complete equipment of the addition to the Armstrong Manual

Training School, including necessary additions to the equipment of the shops, drawing rooms, and laboratories, and for the extension of

the clock and telephone system to the entire building, twelve thousand dollars.

For the complete equipment of the normal school building on lots seventy-six to one hundred and six of Parker and Pulsifer subdivi-

sion of Columbia Heights, thirty thousand dollars. For complete equipment of the addition to the Western High

School, including such modification of the present equipment as may be required, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

For the complete equipment of the third extension to McKinley Manual Training School, including necessary additions to, or modi-

fications of, the equipment of the shops, drawing rooms, and laboratories, twelve thousand dollars.

For the purchase of ground adjacent to the Corcoran School for

the extension of said school, approximately seven thousand two hundred square feet, nine thousand dollars.

For purchase of ground adjacent to Fillmore School, approximately twenty-five thousand square feet, ten thousand dollars.

For purchase of site for a new central high school, approximately four hundred thousand square feet, to be located north of Q Street north and west of Tenth Street west, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Toward the construction of a normal school building for colored

pupils, and the total cost of said building under a contract which is hereby authorized therefor shall not exceed two hundred thousand dollars, seventy-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911...

989

For the erection of a four-room building at or in the vicinity of Burrville, forty thousand dollars.

For the erection of a four-room building on site of Military Road School, thirty-three thousand dollars.

For purchase of site, approximately fifteen thousand square feet, and the erection. thereon of a six-room manual-training building in the twelfth division, fifty-four thousand dollars.

For the purchase of a site for a new M Street High School, approximately sixty thousand square feet, to be located north of M Street

north and west of North Capitol Street, sixty thousand dollars. For additional amount for " Repairs and improvements to school etcF.ireproof stairways,
buildings and grounds " for the purpose of providing additional fire protection, such as fireproofing heating apparatus, fireproofing corridors, alterations to heat and vent flues, and construction of fireproof storage for fuel and ashes, and the purchase and erection of fire extinguishers and fire alarms, to be immediately available, thirty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.

That the total cost of the sites and of the several and respective Cost of sites, etc.

buildings herein provided for, when completed upon plans and specifications to be previously made and approved, shall not exceed . the several and respective sums of money, herein respectively appropriated or authorized for such purposes.

That the plans and specifications for all buildings provided for in Plraepnas.ration and apthis Act shall be prepared under the supervision of the municipal proval. architect, of the District of Columbia and shall be approved by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and shall be constructed in conformity thereto.
School buildings authorized and appropriated for herein shall be waDrodor, setct.o open outconstructed with all doors intended to be used as exits or entrances

opening outward and each of said buildings having in excess of eight

rooms shall have at least four exits. No part of any appropriation

carried in this Act shall be used for the maintenance of school in any

building unless all outside doors thereto used as exits or entrances

shall open outward and be kept unlocked every school day from onehalf hour before until one-half hour after school hours.

All appropriations for sites for school buildings and for the con- avMaiolnaeblyef.orsites, etc. ,

struction of school buildings contained in this Act are hereby made

immediately available. ·

COLUMBIA

INSTITUTION

FOR

THE

DEAF

AND

DUMB :

For

expenses

Deaf and dumb pupils.

attending the instruction of deaf and dumb persons admitted to the Rs. ,sec. 4864, p.942. Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb from the District of Vol. 31, p. 844.

Columbia, under section forty-eight hundred and sixty-four of the Revised Statutes, and as provided for in the Act approved March first, nineteen hundred and one, and under a contract to be entered into with the said institution by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, eleven thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary .
For the maintenance and tuition of colored deaf-mutes of teachable

Colored pupils.

age belonging to the District of Columbia in the Maryland School for Colored Deaf-Mutes, as authorized in an Act of Congress approved Vol. 33, p. 901.

March third, nineteen hundred and five, and under a contract to be entered into by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, six
thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary. For the instruction of indigent blind children of the District of dIrenndi. gent blind chil
Columbia, in Maryland or some other State, under a contract to be entered into by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, six thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

990

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III.. CH. 192. 1911 .

Police.

METROPOLITAN POLICE.

Salaries.

Major and superintendent, four thousand dollars ; assistant super-

intendent, with rank of inspector, two thousand five hundred dollars;

three inspectors, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; eleven

captains, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; chief clerk, who

shall also be property clerk, two thousand dollars ; clerk and stenog-

rapher, one thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk, who shall beassist-

ant property clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; three clerks,

at one thousand dollars each; four surgeons of the police and fire

departments, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; additional

compensation for twenty privates detailed for special service in the

detection and prevention of crime, four thousand eight hundred dol-

lars, or so much thereof as may be necessary; thirteen lieutenants,

one of whom shall be harbor master, at one thousand three hundred

and twenty dollars each; forty-six sergeants, one of whom may be

detailed for duty in the harbor patrol, at one thousand two hundred

and fifty dollars each; five hundred and thirty-seven privates of class

three, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; sixty-three privates

of class two, at one thousand and eighty dollars each ; sixty privates

of class one, at nine hundred dollars each ; amount required to pay

salaries of privates of class two who will be promoted to class three and

privates ofclass one who will be promoted to class two during the fiscal

year nineteen hundred and twelve, two thousand seven hundred and .

nine dollars and fifty cents; six telephone operators, at seven hundred

and twenty dollars each; fourteen janitors, at six hundred dollars

each; messenger, seven hundred dollars ; messenger, five hundred dol-

lars; major and superintendent, mounted, two hundred and forty dol-

lars; inspector, mounted, two hundred and forty dollars ; fifty-five

captains, lieutenants, sergeants, and privates, mounted, at two hundred and sixty dollars each; sixty-four lieutenants, sergeants, and

privates, mounted, on bicycles, at fifty dollars each; twenty-six

drivers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; three police

matrons, at six hundred dollars each; in all, nine hundred and forty

thousand and nine dollars and fifty cents.

Enforcing child

labor law.

The major and superintendent of police shall hereafter detail two

Vol. 35, p. 420.

privates of the Metropolitan police for the -enforcement of the provisions of the Act "to regulate the employment of child labor in the

District of Columbia, " approved May twenty-eighth, nineteen hun-

dred and eight.

Criminal Identifica-

tion Bureau.

To aid in the support of the National Bureau of Criminal Identifica-

tion, to be expended under the direction of the Commissioners of the

District of Columbia, provided the several departments of the General

Government may be entitled to like information from time to time as

Fuel. Repairs.

is accorded the police departments of various municipalities privileged to membership therein, three thousand dollars.
MISCELLANEOUs : For fuel, four thousand dollars ; For repairs and improvements to police stations and grounds, to

be immediately available, five thousand five hundred dollars ; Miscellaneous ex- For miscellaneous and contingent expenses, including the purchase penses.
of new wagons , rewards for fugitives, modern revolvers, maintenance
of card system, stationery, city directories, periodicals, telegraphing,

telephoning, photographs, printing, binding, gas, ice, washing, meals for prisoners, furniture and repairs thereto, beds and bed clothing, insignia of office, purchase of horses, horse and vehicle for superintendent, bicycles, motor cycles, police equipments and repairs to the same, harness, forage, repairs to vehicles, van, and patrol wagons, motor patrol, and saddles, mounted equipments, and expenses

Detection of crime. incurred in the prevention and detection of crime, and other necessary expenses, thirty-six thousand dollars ; of which amount a sum not

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

991 .

exceeding five hundred dollars may be expended by the major and superintendent of police for the prevention and detection of crime under his certificate, approved by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and every such certificate shall be deemed a sufficient

voucher for the sum therein expressed to have been expended : Pro- MPoruovnitseodequipment. vided, That the War Department may, in its discretion, furnish the District Commissioners for the use of the police, upon requisition, such worn mounted equipment as may be required ;
For reconstruction of cell corridors and the making, erecting, and riRdeorcsonisntsrtuacttioinnsg. corplacing therein in the first, fourth, sixth, and eighth precinct station houses eight modern locking appliances, eighteen thousand and eighty dollars ;

In all, sixty-three thousand five hundred and eighty dollars. HOUSE OF DETENTION : To enable the Commissioners of the Dis- House ofDetention.

trict of Columbia to provide transportation, including the purchase and maintenance of necessary horses, wagons, and harness, and a suitable place for the reception, transportation, and detention of chil-
dren under seventeen years of age and in the discretion of the commissioners, of girls and women over seventeen years of age, arrested by the police on charge of offense against any law in force in the District of Columbia, or held as witnesses, or held pending final investigation or examination, or otherwise, including salaries of two clerks, at nine hundred dolars each ; four drivers, at six hundred dollars each; hostler, five hundred and forty dollars ; six guards, at six hundred dollars each; and three matrons, at six hundred dollars each, thirteen thousand five hundred and eighty dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

HARBOR PATROL: Two engineers, at one thousand dollars each; watchman, five hundred and forty dollars; two deck hands, at five hundred and forty dollars each; in all, three thousand six hundred and twenty dollars.

Harbor patrol.

For fuel, construction, maintenance, repairs, and incidentals, two thousand dollars.

In all, five thousand six hundred and twenty dollars.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

Fire department.

Chief engineer, three thousand five hundred dollars ; deputy chief engineer, two thousand five hundred dollars ; three battalion chief engineers, at two thousand dollars each; fire marshal, two thousand dollars; deputy fire marshal, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two inspectors, at one thousand and eighty dollars each; chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; thirty-seven captains, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; thirty-eight lieutenants, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; superintendent of machinery, two thousand dollars ; assistant superintendent of machinery, one thousand two hundred dollars ; twenty-three engineers, at one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars each; twenty-three assistant engineers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each ; two pilots, at one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars each; two marine engineers, at one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars each ; two assistant marine engineers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; two marine firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; thirty-eight drivers, at one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars each; thirty-eight assistant drivers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; two hundred and thirteen privates of
class two, at one thousand and eighty dollars each ; forty privates of class one, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each ; hostler, six hundred dollars ; laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, five hundred

Salaries.

992

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

Proviso. Restrictions on. and thirty-six thousand one hundred and seventy dollars : Provided, leaving District. That no member of the fire department shall, unless on leave of
absence, go beyond the confines of the District of Columbia, or be Leaves allowed. absent from duty without permission; and leaves of absence exceed-

Miscellaneous.

ing twenty days in any one year shall be without pay, and require the . consent of the commissioners ; and such year shall be from January
first to December thirty-first, both inclusive, and thirty days shall be the term of total sick leave in any year, without disallowance of pay.
MISCELLANEOUS : For repairs and improvements to engine houses and grounds, twelve thousand dollars ;
For repairs to apparatus and motor vehicles and other motor-

driven apparatus, and for new apparatus and new appliances, fourteen thousand dollars ;

For purchase of hose, fifteen thousand dollars ; For fuel, fifteen thousand dollars ;

For purchase of horses, fifteen thousand dollars ; For forage, thirty-one thousand dollars ;

For repairs and improvements of the fire boat, eight hundred dollars ; Contingent expenses. For contingent expenses, horseshoeing, furniture, fixtures, oil,
medical and stable supplies, harness, blacksmithing, gas and electric
lighting, flags and halyards, and other necessary items, twenty-six thousand dollars ;

In all, one hundred and twenty-eight thousand eight hundred dollars.

New house, Tenleytown.

INCREASE, FIRE DEPARTMENT : For building and site for an addition

to number twenty engine house, Tenleytown, District of Columbia,

New apparatus.

nine thousand one hundred and sixty-five dollars ; For one second-size steam fire engine, six thousand five hundred

dollars ;

For one fire engine, eight thousand five hundred dollars ;

For one combination chemical engine and hose wagon, seven

thousand five hundred dollars ;

High-pressure service.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby directed

Investigation and to make an investigation as to the necessity of installing ahigh-pressure

report of.

fire service system in the business section of the city of Washington,

and to report the results of such investigation to Congress at its next regular session.

In all, thirty-one thousand six hundred and sixty-five dollars.

Health department.

HEALTH DEPARTMENT.

Salaries.

Health officer, four thousand dollars ; assistant health officer, who shall be a physician, and during the absence or disability of the health officer shall act as health officer and discharge the duties incident to that position, two thousand five hundred dollars ; chief clerk and deputy health officer, two thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; five clerks, two of whom may act as sanitary and food inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars; chief inspector and deputy health officer, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant chief inspector, one thousand six hundred dollars ; fourteen sanitary and food inspectors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two inspectors, at one thousand dollars each ; two inspectors, at nine hundred dollars each ; sanitary and food inspector, who shall be a veterinary surgeon and act as inspector of live stock and dairy farms , one thousand two hundred dollars ; inspector of dairies and dairy farms, one thousand dollars ; five sanitary and food inspectors, who shall be veterinary surgeons, at one thousand dollars each ; five sanitary and food inspectors, to

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 192. 1911 .

.993

assist in the enforcement of the milk and pure-food laws and the regulations relating thereto, at nine hundred dollars each; sanitary
and food inspector, who shall also inspect dairy products and shall be a practical chemist, one thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger and janitor, six hundred dollars ; skilled laborer, six hundred dollars ; driver, six hundred dollars ; pound master, one thousand five hundred dollars; laborers, at not exceeding fifty dollars per month each, three thousand dollars; in all, sixty-three thousand nine hundred and
twenty dollars: Provided, That hereafter any inspector of dairies and dairy farms may act as inspector of live stock when directed by the health officer.
MISCELLANEOUS : For rent of stable, one hundred and twenty dollars. SPtraebvleentrieonnt. of conFor the enforcement of the provisions of an Act to prevent the tagious diseases. spread of contagious diseases in the District of Columbia, approved VVooll.. 3249,,pp.. 868395.. March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, and an Act for the
prevention of scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles, whooping cough, chicken pox, epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis, and typhoid fever in the District of Columbia, approved February ninth, nineteen hundred
Tuberculosis regisand seven, and an Act to provide for registration of all cases of tration. tuberculosis in the District of Columbia, for free examination of Vol. 35, p. 126.
sputum in suspected cases, and for preventing the spread of tuberculosis in said District, approved May thirteenth, nineteen hundred and eight, under the direction of the health officer of said District, and for the prevention of other communicable diseases, including salaries or compensation for personal services not exceeding fifteen thousand dollars when ordered in writing by the commissioners and necessary for the enforcement and execution of said Acts, purchase Horses, wagons, etc. and maintenance of necessary horses, wagons, and harness, rent of stables, purchase of reference books and medical journals, and maintenance of quarantine station and smallpox hospital, twenty-four Proviso. thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That any bacteriologist Bacteriological ex-
employed and paid under this appropriation may be assigned by the eatmci.nations of milk, health officer to the bacteriological examination of milk and of other dairy products and of the water supplies of dairy farms, whether such examinations be or be not directly related to contagious diseases.
For maintenance of the disinfecting service, including salaries or Disinfectingservice. compensation for personal services when ordered in writing by the commissioners and necessary for the maintenance of said service, and for purchase and maintenance of necessary horses, wagons, and harness, and rent of stable, five thousand dollars.
For the enforcement of the provisions of an Act to provide for the DVroali.n2a9g, epo. f12lo5t.s , etc. drainage of lots in the district of Columbia, approved May nineteenth, eighteen hundred and. ninety-six, and an Act to provide for the abatement of nuisances in the District of Columbia by the saAnbcaest.ement of nulCommissioners of said District, and for other purposes, approved Vol. 34, p. 114. April fourteenth , nineteen hundred and six, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For special services in connection with the detection of the adulter- Food adulterations. ation of drugs and of foods, including candy and milk, one hundred dollars.
For the equipment and maintenance of the bacteriological labor- Laboratory. atory, including the purchase of reference books and scientific journals, eight hundred dollars.
For contingent expenses incident to the enforcement of an Act ESaxlpeeonfsemsi,lk, etc. to regulate the sale of milk in the District of Columbia, and for Vol. 23, p. 709. other purposes, approved March second, eighteen hundred and
ninety-five; an Act relating to the adulteration of foods and drugs in the District of Columbia, approved February seventeenth, eighteen foAoddu, clatnedrya, tetic.on of hundred and ninety-eight; an Act to prevent the adulteration of Vol. 30, pp. 246, 398.

994

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

Pure food law. Vol. 34, p. 768.

candy in the District of Columbia, approved May fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight; an Act for preventing the manufacture,

sale, or transportation of adulterated or misbranded or poisonous or

deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, and liquors, and for regulating

traffic therein, and for other purposes, approved June thirtieth,

nineteen hundred and six, and. for the maintenance of a package

motor cycle, one thousand dollars.

Inspecting dairy

farms, etc.

For necessary expenses of inspection of dairy farms, including

amounts that may be allowed the health officer, and assistant health officer, medical inspector in charge of contagious-disease service,

and inspectors assigned to the inspection of dairy farms, for the maintenance by each of a horse and vehicle, or motor vehicle, for use in the discharge of his official duties, not to exceed three hundred

and sixty-five dollars per annum, and other necessary traveling

expenses, six thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be

necessary .

Isolating wards in hospitals.

Garfield and Providence hospitals : For isolating wards for minor

contagious diseases at Garfield Memorial and Providence hospitals,

maintenance, six thousand dollars and four thousand dollars, respec-

Public crematory.
Pound and stable. Proviso. Site.

tively, or so much thereof as may be necessary; in all, ten thousand dollars.
For maintenance, including personal services, of the public crematory, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For the construction of a pound and stable, to be immediately available, ten thousand dollars : Provided, That the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized to build said pound and

stable on public space owned or controlled by said District adjacent to James Creek Canal. Destruction of rats.
For the destruction of rats, to be expended in such manner as the commissioners may deem proper, five hundred dollars.

Courts.

COURTS.

Court of appeals

reports.

For amount required to pay the reporter of the court of appeals of

Vol. 32, p. 609.

the District of Columbia for volumes of the reports of the opinions of

said court, authorized to be furnished by him under section two hun-

dred and twenty-nine of the Code of Laws for the District of Columbia

as amended July first, nineteen hundred and two, twenty-two

volumes, at five dollars each, namely, eleven copies each of volumes

thirty-six and thirty-seven, one hundred and ten dollars. Probation officers. PROBATION SYSTEM: For probation officer, Supreme Court, District

of Columbia, one thousand eight hundred dollars; probation officer,

police court, District of Columbia, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

assistant probation officer, police court, District of Columbia, one thousand two hundred dollars ; contingent expenses, five hundred

Juvenile court. Salaries.

dollars ; in all, five thousand dollars. JUVENILE COURT : For judge, three thousand six hundred dollars ;
clerk, two thousand dollars ; deputy clerk, who is authorized to act as clerk in the absence of that officer, one thousand two hundred dol-

lars; chief probation officer, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

probation officer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; probation

officer, one thousand dollars ; bailiff, seven hundred dollars; janitor,

five hundred and forty dollars ; in all, eleven thousand seven hundred

Miscellaneous.

and forty dollars. Miscellaneous : For compensation of jurors, one thousand seven
hundred and forty dollars ;

For rent, two hundred and forty dollars ;

For furniture, fixtures, and equipments, and repairs to the court-

house and grounds, three hundred dollars;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

995

For fuel, ice, gas, and laundry work, stationery, printing, law books, books of reference, periodicals, typewriter and repairs thereto,

binding and rebinding, preservation of records, mops, brooms, and buckets, removal of ashes and refuse, telephone service, traveling.
expenses, and other incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, one thousand dollars;

In all, three thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.

POLICE COURT: For two judges, at three thousand six hundred PSoalaircieecs.ourt. dollars each ; clerk, two thousand dollars; two deputy clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; two deputy clerks, at one thou-

sand two hundred dollars each; deputy financial clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; seven bailiffs, at nine hundred dollars each;

deputy marshal, one thousand dollars; janitor, six hundred dollars;

engineer, nine hundred dollars; assistant engineer, seven hundred and

twenty dollars; fireman, four hundred and eighty dollars; two assistant janitors, at three hundred dollars each; matron, six hundred dol-

lars; three charmen, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all,

twenty-eight thousand three hundred and eighty dollars.

Miscellaneous: For printing, law books, books of reference, direc- Miscellaneous.

tories, periodicals, stationery, binding and rebinding, preservation of

records, typewriters and repairs thereto, fuel, ice, gas, electric lights and power, telephone service, laundry work, removal of ashes and

rubbish, mops, brooms, buckets, dusters, sponges, painters' and

plumbers' supplies, toilet articles, medicines, soap and disinfectants, United States flags and halyards, and all other necessary and incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, two thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars ; For witness fees, four thousand dollars ; For furniture for the police court and repairing and replacing same,
two hundred dollars;

For meals of jurors and of bailiffs in attendance upon them when ordered by the court, one hundred dollars ;
For compensation of jurors, ten thousand dollars ;

For repairs to the police-court building, one thousand dollars, tobe immediately available ;

In all, seventeen thousand five hundred and fifty dollars. MUNICIPAL COURT; For five judges, at two thousand five hundred MSuanliacriipeasl caonudrt.exdollars each; clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; three assistant penses.

clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; janitor, six hundred dollars; in all, seventeen thousand six hundred dollars;

For rent of building, one thousand five hundred dollars ; For contingent expenses, including books, law books, books of reference, fuel, light, telephone, .blanks, dockets, and all other necessarymiscellaneous items and supplies, seven hundred and fifty dollars; In all, for the municipal court, nineteen thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars. WRITS OF LUNAOY: To defray the expenses attending the execution
of writs de lunatico inquirendo and commitments thereunder in all

LVuonl.a8c3y, pw.r7i4t0s..

cases of indigent insane persons committed or sought to be committed to the Government Hospital for the Insane by order of the executive authority of the District of Columbia under the provisions

of existing law, including the employment of an alienist at not exceeding one thousand dollars per annum, two thousand eight hundred dollars.

INTEREST AND SINKING FUND.
For interest and sinking fund on the funded debt, nine hundred and fuInntde.restandsinking seventy-five thousand four hundred and eight dollars.

996

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

EMERGENCY FUND.

Emergency fund.
Proviso. Purchases.

To be expended only in case of emergency, such as riot, pestilence, public insanitary conditions, calamity by flood. or fire, and of like character, and in all cases of emergency not, otherwise sufficiently provided for, eight thousand dollars: Provided, That in the purchase of all articles provided for in this Act no more than the market price shall be paid for any such articles, and all bids for any of such articles above the market price shall be rejected .

Courts and prisons.

FOR COURTS AND PRISONS.

Support of convicts

out of District.

SUPPORT OF CONVICTS : For support, maintenance, and transporta-

tion of convicts transferred from the District of Columbia, to be

expended under the direction of the Attorney General, forty-eight thousand dollars.

Courthouse,care, etc. COURTHOUSE, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: For the following force necessary for the care and protection of the courthouse in the Dis-

trict of Columbia, under the direction of the United States marshal of the District of Columbia: Engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; three watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; three firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; five labor-

ers, at six hundred dollars each; three messengers, at seven hundred
and twenty dollars each; in all, ten thousand six hundred and eighty dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General. Court of appeals COURT OF APPEALS BUILDING, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: For the building, care, etc. following force, necessary for the care and protection of the court
of appeals building: Two watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty

Proviso. Custodian.

dollars each; one elevator operator, at seven hundred and twenty dollars ; three laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each: Provided, That the clerk of the court of appeals shall be the custodian of said building, under the direction and supervision of the justices of said court ; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.
For maps, brooms, buckets, disinfectants, removal of refuse,

electric current, electrical supplies, books, telephone service in the clerk's office, and all other necessary and incidental expenses not

Jail prisoners. Maintenance.
Post, p. 1002.

otherwise provided for, for the court of appeals building, District of Columbia, nine hundred dollars.
SUPPORT OF PRISONERS: For expenses for maintenance of jail prisoners of the District of Columbia at the Washington Asylum and Jail, including pay of guards and all other necessary personal

services, and for support of prisoners therein, forty thousand eight

hundred and forty dollars.

Supreme court, witness fees.

FEES OF WITNESSES, SUPREME COURT: For fees of witnesses in

R. S., sec. 850, p. 160. the supreme court of the District of Columbia, and for payment of

the actual expenses of witnesses in said court, as provided by section

eight. hundred and fifty, Revised Statutes of the United States, fifteen thousand dollars.

Jurors'fees.

FEES OF JURORS, SUPREME COURT: For fees of jurors in the supreme

court of the District of Columbia, fifty-five thousand dollars. Pay of bailiffs, etc. PAY OF BAILIFFS : For payment of not exceeding one crier in each

court, of office deputy marshals who act as bailiffs or criers, and for

Miscellaneous.

the expense of meals and lodgings for jurors in United States cases and of bailiffs in attendance upon the same when ordered by the court, twenty-seven thousand dollars.
MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES: For payment of such miscellaneous expenses as may be authorized by the Attorney General for the

supreme court of the District of Columbia and its officers, including the furnishing and collecting of evidence where the United States is

or may be a party in interest, including also such expenses as may be authorized by the Attorney General for the court of appeals,

District of Columbia, twenty-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 192. 1911 .

997

CHARITIES AND CORRECTIONS.

Charities and corrections.

BOARD OF CHARITIES: Secretary, three thousand five hundred dol-
lars; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; stenographer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; messenger, six hundred dollars; inspector, one thousand two hundred dollars; three inspectors, at one thousand dollars each; two inspectors, at nine hundred dollars each; two inspectors, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; driver, seven hundred and eighty dollars; three drivers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; hostler, five hundred and forty dollars; traveling expenses, four hundred dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand and sixty dollars.

Board of Charities. Salaries, etc.

REFORMATORIES AND CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS.

Reformatories, etc.

WASHINGTON ASYLUM AND JAIL: Superintendent, one thousand , Washington Asyeight hundred dollars ; visiting physician, one thousand and eighty PSoalsat,ripe.s1003. dollars; resident physician, four hundred and eighty dollars ; clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; engineer, nine hundred dollars ; three assistant engineers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; two assistant engineers at hospital for seven and one-half months, at fifty dollars per month each; night watchman, four hundred and eighty dollars ; blacksmith and woodworker, five hundred dollars; driver for dead wagon, three hundred and sixty-five dollars ; hostler and driver, two hundred and forty dollars ; driver for supply and laundry wagon, two hundred and forty dollars; hospital cook, six hundred dollars ; assistant cook, three hundred dollars; two assistant cooks, at one hundred and eighty dollars each ; trained nurse, who shall act as superintendent of nursing,. eight hundred and forty dollars; two graduate nurses, at four hundred and twenty-five dollars each; graduate nurse for receiving ward, four hundred and twentyfive dollars ; two nurses for annex wards, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; six orderlies, at three hundred dollars each ; two orderlies
for annex wards, at three hundred dollars each ; pupil nurses, not less
than twenty-one in number (nurses to be paid not to exceed one hundred and twenty dollars per annum during first year of service, and not to exceed one hundred and fifty dollars per annum during
second year of service), three thousand dollars; registered pharmacist, who shall act as hospital clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars; gardener, five hundred and forty dollars; seamstress, three hundred dollars; housekeeper, three hundred dollars; laundryman, six hundred dollars ; assistant laundryman, three hundred and sixtyfive dollars; six laundresses, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; two chambermaids, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; three waiters, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; six ward maids, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; temporary labor, not to exceed one thousand two hundred dollars; in all, twenty-seven thousand and fifteen dollars.
For provisions, fuel, forage, harness and vehicles and repairs to Contingentexpenses. same, gas, ice, shoes, clothing, dry goods, tailoring, drugs and medical supplies, furniture and bedding, kitchen utensils, and other necessary items, thirty thousand dollars.
For repairs to buildings, plumbing, painting, lumber, hardware, cement, lime, oil, tools, cars, tracks, steam heating and cooking apparatus, two thousand dollars.
Payments to famiPAYMENTS TO DESTITUTE WOMEN AND CHILDREN: For payment to lles,etc. · the beneficiaries named in section three of "An Act making it a mis- Vol. 34, p. 87. demeanor in the District of Columbia to abandon or willfully neglect to provide for the support and maintenance by any person of his wife or his or her minor children in destitute or necessitous circumstances, " approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six, three thou-
88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-65

998

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

sand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be disbursed by the disbursing officer of the District of Columbia on itemized

Home for Aged and vouchers duly audited and approved by the auditor of said District.

Infirm .

HOME FOR THE AGED AND INFIRM : Superintendent, one thousand

two hundred dollars ; matron, six hundred dollars ; clerk, nine hun-

dred dollars ; baker, five hundred and forty dollars; two female attendants, at three hundred dollars each ; chief cook, six hundred

dollars; two male attendants, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; chief engineer, nine hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, seven

hundred and twenty dollars ; second assistant engineer, four hundred and eighty dollars; three firemen, at three hundred dollars each ;

physician and pharmacist, four hundred and eighty dollars ; two

nurses, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; assistant cook, three hundred dollars ; assistant cook, one hundred and eighty dollars ;

blacksmith and woodworker, five hundred and forty dollars ; farmer, five hundred and forty dollars ; three farm hands, at three hundred

and sixty dollars each; dairyman, three hundred and sixty dollars; tailor, three hundred and sixty dollars ; seamstress, two hundred and

forty dollars ; laundryman, five hundred and forty dollars ; hostler

and driver, two hundred and forty dollars ; three servants, at one hundred and forty-four dollars each ; temporary labor, one thousand dollars; in all, fifteen thousand one hundred and seventy-two dollars ; Contingent expenses. For provisions, fuel, forage, harness and vehicles and repairs to same, ice, shoes, clothing, dry goods, tailoring, drugs and medical supplies, furniture and bedding, kitchen utensils, and other necessary

items, twenty-five thousand dollars ;

For repairs and improvements to buildings and grounds, three thousand dollars ;

For purchase and laying farm-land drain tile, five hundred dollars ; For extension of colored men's ward and of dining room, twenty thousand dollars ;

For dredging and otherwise completing the drainage of the farm land, three thousand dollars ;

For erection of general barn, carriage house, and horse stable, three thousand dollars ;

For extension of sewer from its present terminus to tidewater, six hundred and fifty dollars;

In all, for Home for Aged and Infirm, seventy thousand three hun-

dred and twenty-two dollars.

National Training School for Boys.

NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR BOYS : For care and maintenance

Maintenance of in- of boys committed to the National Training School for Boys by the

mates.

courts of the District of Columbia under a contract to be made by the

Board of Charities with the authorities of said National Training

School for Boys, forty thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

Reform School for Girls.

REFORM SCHOOL FOR GIRLS : Superintendent, one thousand two

Salaries.

hundred dollars ; treasurer, six hundred dollars ; matron, six hun-

dred dollars ; three teachers, at six hundred dollars each; overseer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; six teachers of industries, at four

hundred and eighty dollars each; engineer, six hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; night watchman,

four hundred and eighty dollars ; two laborers, at three hundred dollars each ; in all, nine thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars; Contingentexpenses. For groceries, provisions, light, fuel, soap, oil, lamps, candles, clothing, shoes, forage, horseshoeing, medicines, medical attendance,

hack hire, transportation, labor, sewing machines, fixtures, books,

stationery, horses, vehicles, harness, cows, pigs, fowls, sheds, fences, repairs, and other necessary items, twelve thousand dollars;

For fencing around farm and grounds, seven hundred and eightyfive dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS.  -I.II.., CH. 192. - 1911.

999

For plans and specifications for additional building and heating inAgdsd, iptliaonnsa.l build-

plant,

to

cost not 1

to

exceed

sixty

thousand

dollars,

five

hundred

dollars ;

In all, for Reform School for Girls, twenty-three thousand two´ ·

hundred and forty-five dollars. TRANSPORTATION OF PRISONERS : For conveying prisoners to the Transportation of
prisoners. workhouse, including salary of driver, not to exceed seven hundred

and twenty dollars, and the purchase and maintenance of necessary horses, wagons, and harness, two thousand dollars.

MEDICAL.CHARITIES.

Medical charities.

For the care and treatment of indigent patients,

under

a

contract

Freedmen's tal.

Hoepf-

to be made with the Freedmen's Hospital and Asylum by the Board

of Charities, thirty-four thousand dollars, or so much.thereof as may be necessary.

For the care and treatment of indigent patients, under a contract.foCroWloummebina. Hospital to be made with the Columbia. Hospital for Women and Lying-in Asylum by the Board of Charities, not to exceed twenty thousand dollars.

For repairs to Columbia Hospital, two thousand three hundred and fifty dollars.
For the care and treatment of indigent patients, under a contract to be made with the Children's Hospital bythe Board of Charities, not to exceed fourteen thousand dollars. "

Children's Hospital

For the care and treatment of indigent patients, under a contract piHtaolm. eopathic Hosto be made with the National Homeopathic Hospital Association by the Board of Charities, not to exceed eight thousand dollars.

For emergency care and treatment of, and free dispensary service Emergency Hospi to, indigent patients under a contract or agreement to be made with tal.

the Central Dispensary and Emergency Hospital by the Board of . Charities, fifteen thousand dollars.

For emergency care and treatment of, and free dispensary service Eastern Dispensary.

to indigent patients under a contract or agreement to be made with

the Eastern Dispensary by the Board of Charities, eleven thousand .

dollars.

For the

care

and

treatment

of indigent

patients

under

a

contract

to

Home ables.

for

Incur

be made with the Washington Home for Incurables by the Board of

Charities, five thousand dollars.

For care and treatment of indigent patients under a contract to be sitGyeHoorsgpeittoawl.nUnivermade with the Georgetown University Hospital by the Board of Char-
ities, four thousand dollars.

For care and treatment of indigent patients under a contract to be UnGieveorrsgietyWaHsoshpiintgatlo. n made with the George Washington University Hospital by the Board
of Charities, four thousand dollars. "

TUBERCULOSIS HOSPITAL: Superintendent, one . thousand eight taTlu. berculosis Hospi hundred dollars ; resident physician, four hundred and eighty dollars; Salaries. pharmacist and clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; superintendent of nurses, seven hundred and twenty dollars; matron, six hundred dollars, pathologist, three hundred dollars ; seven graduate nurses, at six hundred dollars each; chief cook, six hundred dollars ; assistant cook, three hundred and sixty dollars; two assistant cooks, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; engineer, seven hundred

and twenty dollars ; assistant engineer, six hundred dollars ; assistant

engineer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; two firemen, at three hundred dollars each; elevator conductor, three hundred dollars; laundry-

man, six hundred dollars ; three laundresses, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; farmer, three hundred and sixty dollars; laborer, three hundred and sixty dollars ; night watchman, three hundred and sixty dollars; three orderlies, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ;

1000

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

two ward maids, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; four servants, at one hundred and eighty dollars each ; in all, seventeen thousand two hundred and twenty dollars , or so much thereof as may be necessary ; Contingent expenses. For provisions, fuel, forage, harness, and. vehicles and repairs to. same, gas, ice, shoes, clothing, dry goods, tailoring, drugs and medical supplies , furniture and bedding, kitchen utensils, books and periodicals not to exceed fifty dollars, temporary services not to exceed one thousand dollars, and other necessary items, thirty thousand dollars ;
For repairs and improvements to buildings and grounds, one thousand dollars ;
In all, for Tuberculosis Hospital, forty-eight thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.

Care of children.

CHILD-CARING INSTITUTIONS.

Board of Children's Guardians.

BOARD OF CHILDREN'S GUARDIANS : For administrative expenses,

Expenses.

including expenses in placing and visiting children, city directory,

Salaries.

and all office and sundry expenses, three thousand one hundred dollars ;
For agent, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; executive clerk,

one thousand two hundred dollars ; one placing officer, one thousand

dollars ; two placing officers, at nine hundred dollars each; investi-

gating clerk, nine hundred dollars ; record clerk, seven hundred and

twenty dollars; two visiting inspectors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; clerk, six hundred and sixty dollars; messenger, three

hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, nine thousand eight hundred and

eighty dollars ;

Feeble-minded children.

For maintenance of feeble-minded children (white and colored),

twenty thousand dollars ;

Board, etc.

For board and care of all children committed to the guardianship

of said board by the courts of the District , and for the temporary

care of children pending investigation or while being transferred from
place to place, with authority to pay not more than one thousand five hundred dollars to institutions adjudged to be under sectarian control and not more than three hundred dollars for burial of chil-

dren dying while under charge of the board, forty-two thousand five hundred dollars.

In all, for board of children's guardians, seventy-five thousand

four hundred and eighty dollars.
Advances to agent. The disbursing officer of the District of Columbia is authorized to

advance to the agent of the board of children's guardians, upon

requisitions previously approved by the auditor of the District of

Columbia and upon such security as may be required of said agent by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, sums of money

not to exceed two hundred dollars at any one time, to be used for

expenses in placing and visiting children, traveling on official business of the board, and for office and sundry expenses, all such expendi-

tures to be accounted for to the accounting officers of the District of

Columbia within one month on itemized vouchers properly approved.

Industrial Home School for Colored

INDUSTRIAL HOME SCHOOL FOR COLORED CHILDREN : Superintend-

Children. Salaries

ent, one thousand two hundred dollars ; matron of school, four hun-

dred and eighty dollars ; two caretakers, at three hundred and sixty

dollars each; two assistant caretakers, at three hundred and sixty

dollars each; two teachers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ;

sewing teacher, three hundred and sixty dollars; manual training

teacher, four hundred and eighty dollars; farmer, four hundred and

eighty dollars; watchman, three hundred dollars ; 'stableman, three hundred dollars ; cook, two hundred and forty dollars ; laundress, two

hundred and forty dollars ; in all, six thousand four hundred and

eighty dollars ;

SXTY-FIRST CONGRESS: SESS. III. · Ca. 192. 1911 .

1001

For temporary services, not to exceed five hundred dollars; For maintenance, including purchase and care of horses, wagons, and harness, six thousand dollars;

Expenses.

For furniture and manual-training equipment, four hundred and fifty dollars;

For repairs and improvements to buildings, and grounds,. five hundred dollars;

In all , for Industrial Home School for Colored Children, thirteen Proviso. thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars: Provided, That all moneys Receipts from sale

received at said school as income from sale of products and from ofproducts, etc.

payment of board of instruction,.or otherwise, shall be paid over to the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to be expended by

them in the support of the school during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.
INDUSTRIAL HOME SCHOOL: Superintendent, one thousand five ScIhnodoulst. rial hundred dollars; matron, four hundred and eighty dollars; three Salaries:
matrons, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; two assistant matrons, at three hundred dollars each; housekeeper, three hundred and sixty dollars ; sewing teacher, three hundred and sixty dollars; nurse, three hundred dollars; manual-training teacher, six hundred dollars; florist, eight hundred and forty dollars; engineer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; farmer, five hundred and forty dollars; cook, two hundred and forty dollars ; laundress, two hundred and forty dollars ; two housemaids, at one hundred and eighty dollars each; temporary labor, not to exceed four hundred-.dollars ; in all, eight thousand six hundred and twenty dollars ;
Expenses. For maintenance, including purchase and care of horse, wagon, and harness, fourteen thousand dollars;

Home

For repairs and improvements . to buildings and grounds, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

In all, for the Industrial Home School, twenty-four thousand one
hundred and twenty dollars; For the care and maintenance of children under a contract to be Home for destitute colored children.
made with the National' Association for the Relief of Destitute

Colored Women and Children by the Board of Charities, not to exceed nine thousand nine hundred dollars.

For the care and maintenance of children under a contract to be taFlo. undlings'. Hospi-
made with the Washington Home for Foundlings by the Board of Charities, six thousand dollars.
For the care and maintenance of children under a contract to be SaintAnn'sAsylum.

made with Saint Ann's Infant Asylum by the Board of Charities, six thousand dollars.
TEMPORARY HOMES.

Temporary homes.

Municipal lodging house and wood and stone yard, namely: Super- hoMuusnei.cipal lodging intendent, one thousand two hundred dollars ; cook, three hundred and sixty dollars; foreman, three hundred and sixty dollars ; night watchman for six months, at twenty-five dollars per month, one: hundred and fifty dollars; maintenance, one thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars ; in all, three thousand eight hundred and ninety . dollars.
The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized to Night Lodging accept, as a donation from the Night Lodging House Association of ·House accepted. the District of Columbia, the south half of lot nineteen, in square
two hundred and ninety-three, in the city of Washington, and the improvements thereon, now known as the Night Lodging House, the same to become the property of the District of Columbia.
Temporary Home for ex-Union Soldiers and Sailors, Grand Army diGersa'nHdomAet.tny Solof the Republic, namely: Superintendent, one thousand two hundred dollars ; janitor, three hundred and sixty dollars ; cook, three

1002

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

hundred and sixty dollars ; maintenance, four thousand dollars ; in

all, five thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia;

and ex-soldiers and sailors of the Spanish war and the war with Mexico shall also be admitted to the Home.

Hope and Help Mission.

For the care and maintenance of women and children under a con-

tract to be made with the Florence Crittenton Hope and Help Mission

by the Board of Charities, maintenance, three thousand dollars. inSsuapnpeo. rt of indigent HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE: For support of the indigent insane of

the District of Columbia in the Government Hospital for the Insane

in said District, as provided by law, three hundred and twenty-three

thousand four hundred dollars.

Deporting nonresident insane.

For deportation from the District of Columbia of nonresident insane

Vol. 30,p.811.

persons, in accordance with the Act of Congress " to change the pro-

ceedings for admission to the Government Hospital for the Insane in

certain cases, and for other purposes," approved January thirty-first,

eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, three thousand dollars.

Advances to Board of Charities.

That in expending the foregoing sum the disbursing officer of the

District of Columbia is authorized to advance to the secretary of

the Board of Charities, upon requisitions previously approved by the

auditor of the District of Columbia, and upon such security as the Commissioners of the District of Columbia may require of said secre-

tary, sums of money not exceeding three hundred dollars at one

time, to be used only for deportation from the District of nonresident

insane persons, and to be accounted for monthly on itemized vouchers to the accounting officers of the District of Columbia. Relief ofthe poor. RELIEF OF THE POOR: For relief of the poor, including pay of

physicians to the poor at not exceeding one dollar per day each, who

shall be appointed by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia

on the recommendation of the health officer, twelve thousand dollars.

Transportation of TRANSPORTATION OF PAUPERS : For transportation of paupers, three

paupers.

thousand dollars.

Proviso. No money for new

Provided, That no part of any appropriation contained in this Act

i1n0stimtiulteisonsofwiMtohuinnt or of any appropriation heretofore made shall be expended for any

Vernon.

purpose whatsoever for a reformatory or asylum or workhouse in the

State of Virginia or Maryland, within a radius of ten miles of Mount

Vernon, except the one now located at Occoquan, Virginia.

Workhouse. General expenses.

WORKHOUSE: For the following purposes in connection with

Vol.35, p. 717.

removal of jail and workhouse prisoners from the District of Colum-

bia to the site acquired for a workhouse in the State of Virginia, in

accordance with the provisions of existing law, including superin-

tendence, custody, clothing, guarding, maintenance, care, and support of said prisoners ; subsistence, furniture, and quarters for

guards and other employees and inmates ; the purchase and maintenance of farm implements, live stock, seeds, and miscellaneous

items, tools and equipment ; transportation and the means of transportation; the maintenance and operation of the means of trans-

Provisos.

portation; and supplies and personal services, and all other necessary items, one hundred and ninety-three thousand dollars, of which
sum eighty thousand dollars shall be immediately available: Pro-

erDseflriovmerjayilo.f prison- vided, That the supreme court of the District of Columbia, the Attorney General, and the warden of the District of Columbia Jail,

when so requested by the Commissioners of the District of Colum-

bia, shall deliver into the custody of the superintendent or the authorized, deputy or deputies of said superintendent of said work-

house, male and female prisoners sentenced to confinement in said

jail for offenses against the common law or against statutes or ordi-

onEemrpsloonycmoensnttroufcptriiosn- nances relating to the District of Columbia, and, in the discretion

work, etc.

. of the supreme court of the District of Columbia and the Attorney

General, male and female prisoners serving sentence in said jail for

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

1003

offenses against the United States, for the purposes named in the law authorizing the acquisition of the site for said workhouse and

such other work or services as may be. necessary, in the discretion of the Commissioners of said District, in connection with the construction, maintenance, and operation' of said workhouse, or the prosecution of any other public work at said institution or in the

District of Columbia: Provided further, That, on . the direction of plPoryiesdonaesrasttjoalble. emsaid commissioners, male and female prisoners confined in any existing workhouse or in the Washington Asylum and Jail of the
District of Columbia shall be delivered into the custody of said

superintendent or the authorized deputy or deputies of said superintendent aforesaid, to perform similar work or services. to those hereinbefore required of male and female prisoners serving sentences . in the District of Columbia Jail : Provided further, That the Com- inJurDisdtriiccttionCovmemsitsedmissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby vested with juris- stoners.

diction over such male and female prisoners from the time they are so delivered into the custody of said superintendent or the duly

authorized deputy or deputies of said superintendent, including the

time when such prisoners are in transit between the District of

Columbia and the site acquired for such workhouse, and during the period such prisoners are on such site or in the District of Colum-

bia until they are released or discharged under due process of law:

Provided further, That all the authority, duties, discretion, and trCaunstfeordryedofjtaoll,Ceotcm.-, powers now vested in the Attorney General of the United States, missioners. by law, in relation to the support of prisoners sentenced to con-

finement in the jail of the District, including the custody of the jail .

building, grounds, and appurtenances, and authority over the warden and employees thereof, and in relation to and accounting

for all appropriations in connection with such prisoners, jail, war-

den, and employees, are hereby transferred to and vested in the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, to take effect and be in

force on and after the first day of July, nineteen hundred and eleven, and the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby author-

ized and directed to receive and keep in the jail of the District of Columbia all other prisoners committed thereto for offenses against

the United States: Provided further, That the jail of the District of mJeragield ianntdo oAnseyinlsutimColumbia and the Washington Asylum of said District, on and after tution.

the first day of July, nineteen hundred and eleven, shall be combined as one institution, known as the Washington Asylum and Jail; and Superintendent. the Commissioners of said District are hereby authorized to appoint

a superintendent of said institution, at a compensation of one thou-

sand eight hundred

dollars

per annum,

and the positions

of warden

Former abolished.

positions

of the jail and superintendent of the institution now known as

Washington Asylum are abolished on and after said date; and all Duties transferred the duties, discretion, and powers now vested in and exercised by the to newofficer. warden of the jail of said District and the superintendent of the present

Washington Asylum are hereby transferred to and vested in the

superintendent herein provided for, who shall give bond to the Bond. District of Columbia' for the faithful performance of the duties of

his office, as are now or may hereafter be prescribed, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, with surety or sureties to be approved

by said commissioners: Provided further, That whenever and wher- Commitments. ever authority of law exists to sentence, commit, order committed,

or confine any person to or in said jail or asylum, said authority shall, on, from, and after July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, be exercised by sentence, commitment, order of commitment, or confinement to or in said Washington Asylum and Jail : Provided

further, That all of the powers, duties, and authority now vested in suApurtehmoeritcyooufrDtistorviecrt the supreme court of the District of Columbia in relation to the jail, etc., transferred

appointment and removal of the warden of the jail of the District to Commissioners.

1004

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

Sale ofproducts. Receipts.

of Columbia, and in relation to the making of rules for the govern-
ment and discipline of the prisoners confined in the jail, are hereby transferred to and vested in the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, who shall also have the authority heretofore vested in the warden to appoint subordinate officers, guards, and employees, without the approval of the chief justice of the supreme court of the District of Columbia: Provided further, That the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby authorized, under such regulations as they may prescribe, to sell to the various departments and institutions of the government of the District of Columbia the products of said workhouse, and all moneys derived from such sales shall be paid into the Treasury, one-half to the credit of the United States and one-half to the credit of the District of Columbia.

Militia.

MILITIA OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Expenses.

For the following, to be expended under the authority and direction of the commanding general, who is hereby authorized and empow-

Camps, etc.

ered to make necessary contracts and leases, namely: For expenses of camps, including hire of horses for officers required

to be mounted, and such hire not to be deducted from their mounted

pay, instruction, practice marches and practice cruises, drills, and parades, rent, fuel, light, h· eat, care, and repair of armories, practice ships, boats, machinery, and dock, dredging alongside of dock, telephone service, and for general incidental expenses of the service, forty-eight thousand dollars.
For lockers, furniture, and gymnastic apparatus for armories, one thousand dollars.

For printing, stationery, and postage, two thousand one hundred and fifty dollars.

For cleaning and repairing uniforms, arms, and equipments, and contingent expenses, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars.
For custodian in charge of United States property and storerooms, one thousand dollars

For clerk, office of the adjutant general, one thousand dollars. For expenses of target practice and matches, one thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars.

Pay.

For pay of troops, other than Government employees, to be dis-

bursed under the authority and direction of the commanding general,

Proriros. Deductions

for

loss

twenty-four

thousand

dollars :

Provided, That

hereafter

all

moneys

of property.

collected on account of deductions made from the pay of any officer

or enlisted man of the National Guard of the District of Columbia

on account of Government property lost or destroyed by such indi-. vidual shall be repaid into the United States Treasury to the credit of the officer of the Militia of the District of Columbia who is account-

able to the United States Government for such property lost or Officers' clothing. destroyed: Provided further, That there may be paid to all commis-
sioned officers (without discrimination, and in lieu of the limited

pay authorized by this section) an allowance to be used by them in the purchase and maintenance of clothing and equipment : edUpsaeyo,fetfci.nes, retain- Provided further, That hereafter all moneys collected on account of deductions made from the pay of any officer or enlisted man of the National Guard of, the District of Columbia for or on account
of any violation of the regulations governing said national guard, and all moneys which, by reason of the absence of officers or enlisted
men from duly ordered assemblies or other duty, are not expended for pay of troops, shall be held by the commanding general of the
Militia of the District of Columbia, who is authorized to expend such moneys for necessary clerical and general expenses of the service, heretofore or hereafter incurred, including law books and books of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911 .

1005

reference, or for the pay of troops, other than Government employees; and for all moneys so expended the commanding general shall make Accounting.

an accounting in like manner as for the appropriation disbursed for Use of appropria-
pay of troops: Provided further, That hereafter any of the moneys to
appropriated for the District of Columbia Militia may be used to

supplement specific appropriations or allotments which may be found insufficient for the purposes for which made, and authority is hereby given to supplement the regular ration by purchase of such additional articles of subsistence as may be deemed necessary:

Additional rations.

Provided further, That hereafter the commanding general of the frAoumthpoaryi,teytct.odeduct District of Columbia Militia is hereby authorized to make such

deductions from any pay of any officer or enlisted man derived from

appropriations or allotments made under the provisions of sectionR. S., sec. 1661, p sixteen hundred and sixty-one, United States Revised Statutes or other federal enactments as may be necessary to reimburse the United States or the District of Columbia for public property lost,

destroyed, or damaged by such individual.

EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS.

Extension of water mains.

For completion of water trunk mains to Congress Heights, District
of Columbia, said sum to be in addition to the sums herein apprópriated from the revenues of the water department, fifty-six thousand dollars.

Congress Heights.

For extension of water trunk mains to Benning, District of Colum- Benning.

bia, said sum to be in addition to the sum herein appropriated from

the revenues of the water department, forty-five thousand one hundred dollars.

ANACOSTIA RIVER FLATS.

Anacostia River flats.

Toward the reclamation and development of the Anacostia River Reclamation, etc. and Flats, from the Anacostia Bridge northeast to the District line, to be expended under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers, United States Army, upon plans to be prepared under the direction of, and to be approved by, a board of engineers to consist of the inBcohaarrdgeo.f engineers Engineer Commissioner of the District of Columbia, the officer in charge of public buildings and grounds, and the engineer officer in charge of the improvement of the Potomac River; said sum to be available for the preparation of plans, the prosecution of the work, the employment of personal service, and for such other purposes as may in the judgment of said board be necessary to carry out the pur-
poses of this appropriation, one hundred thousand dollars.

MONTROSE PARK.

Montrose Park.

That the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be, and they oPnroGceuroirnggleatndofwonr, are hereby, authorized and directed to acquire for a park, by purchase Heights.

or condemnation, the tract of land known as Montrose, lying imme- · Ante, p. 701. diately north ofroad'or R Street and east of Lovers Lane, on George-

town Heights, containing sixteen acres, more or less, at an expense

not exceeding one hundred and ten thousand dollars ; and for that

purpose the sum of one hundred and ten thousand dollars, to be

immediately available, is hereby appropriated, out of any money in

.

the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated : Pro- PRreoitmobursement

vided, That one-half of the said sum of one hundred and ten thousand nfureosm. District revedollars, or so much thereof as may be expended, shall be reimbursed

to the Treasury of the United States out of the revenues of the Dis-

trict of Columbia, in four equal annual installments, beginning with

the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, and with interest at the

rate of three per centum per annum upon the deferred payments :

1006

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

Maintenance, etc. And providedfurther, That one-half of the sum that shall be annually

appropriated and expended for the maintenance and improvement of said lands as a public park shall be charged against and paid out of the revenues of the District of Columbia, in the same manner now

provided by law in respect to other appropriations for the District of

Condemnation pro- Columbia, and the other half, shall be appropriated out of the Treas-

ceedings.

ury of the United States. If said commissioners shall be unable to

purchase said land at a price not exceeding the sum of one hundred

Vol. 30, p. 649.

and ten thousand dollars, then they shall proceed to acquire said land in the manner prescribed for providing a site for an addition to the Government Printing Office in so much of the Act approved July first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, as is set forth on pages six hundred and forty-eight and six hundred and forty-nine of Volume XXX of the Statutes at Large, and for the purposes of said acquisition the Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall have and

Control, etc. Water department.

exercise all powers conferred upon the Public Printer in said Act : Provided, That the public park authorized and established by this Act shall become a part of the park system ofthe District of Columbia and be under the control of the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army.
WATER DEPARTMENT.

Payable from water

revenues.

The following sums are hereby appropriated to carry on the opera-

tions of the water department, to be paid wholly from its revenues,

Revenue and in- namely:

spection branch.

For revenue and inspection branch: Water registrar, who shall also

perform the duties of chief clerk, two thousand four hundred dollars;

clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; index clerk, one thousand

four hundred dollars ; one clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

two clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; three meter computers, at

one thousand dollars each ; chief inspector, one thousand dollars ;

meter clerk, one thousand dollars ; tap clerk, one thousand dollars;

eight inspectors, at nine hundred dollars each ; eleven inspectors, at

Distributionbranch. eight hundred dollars each; messenger, six hundred dollars. For distribution branch : Superintendent, three thousand three hun-

dred dollars; draftsman, one thousand six hundred dollars ; foreman, one thousand five hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand two hundred

dollars ; clerk, one thousand dollars ; timekeeper, nine hundred dol-

lars ; assistant foreman, nine hundred dollars; three steam engineers,

at one thousand one hundred dollars each; assistant engineer, two

thousand four hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, one thousand five hundred dollars ; leveler, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two rod-

men, at nine hundred dollars each ; two chainman, at six hundred and.

seventy-five dollars each ; draftsman, one thousand and fifty dollars;

clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand

two hundred dollars each; storekeeper, one thousand dollars ; assist-

ant storekeeper, seven hundred and fifty dollars; assistant foreman,

one thousand two hundred and seventy-five dollars ; assistant fore-

man, one thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant foreman, one thousand one hundred and twenty-five dollars ; chief steam engineer, one

thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; three assistant steam engineers, at eight hundred and seventy-five dollars each ; four oilers, at

six hundred and ten dollars each; three firemen, at eight hundred and seventy-five dollars each; inspector, one thousand two hundred dol-

lars; janitor, nine hundred dollars; watchman, eight hundred and seventy-five dollars; watchman, seven hundred dollars ; watchman,

six hundred and ten dollars; two drivers, at seven hundred dollars each; two messengers, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; clerk,

one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ; clerk, one thousand

two hundred dollars ; clerk, nine hundred dollars ; driver, six hundred

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

1007

and thirty dollars; chief inspector of valves, one thousand four

hundred dollars ; in all, eighty-five thousand and thirty-five dollars.

For contingent expenses, including books, blanks, stationery, Contingentexpenses. printing, postage, damages, purchase of technical reference books and

periodicals not to exceed seventy-five dollars, and other necessary items, five thousand five hundred dollars.

For fuel, repairs to boilers, machinery, and pumping stations, pipe Operating expenses. distribution to high and lowservice, material for high and low service,

including public hydrants and fire plugs, and labor in repairing, replacing, raising, and lowering mains, laying new mains and con-

nections, and erecting and repairing fire plugs, and purchase and maintenance of two motor trucks, horses, wagons, carts, and harness

necessary for the proper execution of this work, and including a sum

not exceeding eight hundred dollars for the purchase and use of
.bicycles by inspectors of the water department, forty-one thousand dollars. For continuing the extension of and maintaining the high-service High- service Byetem.
system of water distribution, laying necessary service and trunk
mains for low service, and purchasing, installing, and maintaining

water meters on services to such private residences and to such

business places as may not be required to install meters under existing regulations as may be directed by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, said meters at all times to remain the property of the District of Columbia, to include all necessary land, machinery,

buildings, mains, and appurtenances, and labor, and the purchase

and maintenance of horses, wagons, carts, and harness necessary for

the proper execution of this work, so much as may be available in the water fund during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, after

providing for the expenditures hereinbefore authorized, is hereby

appropriated.

SEO.

2.

That the services

of draftsmen,

assistant engineers,

levelers,

Temporary men,etc.

drafts-

transitmen, rodmen, chainmen, computers, copyists, overseers, and inspectors temporarily required in connection with sewer, street, or road work, or the construction and repair of buildings and bridges, or any general or special engineering or construction work authorized

by appropriations may be employed exclusively to carry into effect said appropriations when specifically and in writing ordered by the Commissioners of the District; and all such necessary expenditures

for the proper execution of said work shall be paid from and equitably charged against the sums appropriated for said work; and the Com-

missioners of the District in their annual estimates shall report the
number of such employees performing such services, and their work, Proviso. and the sums paid to each, and out of what appropriation : Provided, Maximum expendi
That the expenditures hereunder shall not exceed seventy thousand ture. dollars during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.
The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are further author- miWssoiroknerusn. der Comized to employ temporarily such laborers, skilled laborers, and erTs,eemtpc.orary labormechanics as may be required exclusively in connection with sewer,
street, and road work, and street sprinkling, or the construction and
repair of buildings and bridges, or any general or special engineering or construction work, and to incur all necessary engineering and

other expenses, exclusive of personal services, incidental to carrying on such work and necessary for the proper execution thereof; said laborers, skilled laborers, and mechanics to be employed to perform such work as may not be required by law to be done under contract, and to pay for such services and expenses from the appropriations under which such services are rendered and expenses incurred.
SEC. 3. That all horses, harness, and wagons necessary for use in HSopercsieasl,woradgeornss,fretocm. connection with sewer, street, street lighting, or road work, or on Commissioners for us-

construction and repair of buildings and bridges, or any general or ing.

1008 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 192. 1911.

special engineering or construction work authorized by appropria. tions may be purchased, hired, and maintained exclusively to carry

into effect said appropriations, when specifically and in writing ordered by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and all such

expenditures necessary for the proper execution of said work, exclu-

Report.

sive of personal services, shall be paid from and equitably charged against the sums appropriated for said work; and the Commissioners of the District in the annual estimates shall report the number of

horses, wagons, and harness purchased, and horses and wagons hired,

and the sums paid for same, and out of what appropriation, and all horses owned or maintained by the District shall, so far as may be

practicable, be provided for in stables owned or operated by said

Proviso. Work under

Com-

District:

Provided,

That

such

horses,

wagons,

and

carts

as

may be

missioners.

temporarily needed for hauling and excavating material in connec-

tion with works authorized by appropriations may be temporarily

employed for such purposes under the conditions named in section

two of this Act in relation to the employment of laborers, skilled

laborers, and mechanics.

Water department. SEC. 4. The services of draftsmen, levelers, rodmen, chainmen, and

Temporary drafts-

men, etc.

inspectors temporarily required in connection with water-depart-

ment work authorized by appropriations may be employed exclu-

Report.

sively to carry into effect said appropriations, and be paid therefrom, when specifically and in writing ordered by the Commissioners of the District, and the Commissioners of the District in their annual

Proviso.

estimates shall report the number of such employees performing such services and their work and the sums paid to each: Provided, That

ure.ximum expend the expenditures hereunder shall not exceed ten thousand dollars

during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

Work under Commissioners.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are further author-

Temporary labor- ized to employ temporarily such laborers, skilled laborers, and ers, etc.
mechanics as may be required in connection with water-department

work, and to incur all necessary engineering and other expenses, ex-

clusive of personal services, incidental to carrying on such work and

necessary for the proper execution thereof, said laborers, skilled

laborers, and mechanics to be employed to perform such work as may not be required by existing law to be done under contract, and

to pay for such services and expenses from the appropriation under

which such services are rendered and expenses incurred.

Miscellaneous trustfund.

SEC. 5. The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are author-

Expensespaid from. ized to employ in the execution of work the cost of which is payable

Vol. 33, p. 368.

from the appropriation account created in the District appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and five, approved April twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and four, and known as the "Mis-

cellaneous trust-fund deposits, District of Columbia," all necessary inspectors, overseers, foremen, sewer tappers, skilled laborers,

mechanics, laborers, special policemen stationed at street-railway crossings, one inspector of gas fitting, two janitors for laboratories,

of the Washington and Georgetown Gas Light companies, market master, assistant market master, watchman, horses, carts, and

wagons, and to incur all necessary expenses incidental to carrying on

such work and necessary for the proper execution thereof, such

services and expenses to be paid from said appropriation account.

Limit on requisitions.

SEC. 6. The Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall not

make requisitions upon the appropriations from the Treasury of the

United States for a larger amount during the fiscal year nineteen

hundred and twelve than they make on the appropriations arising

Lighting. Ante, p. 982.

from the revenues, including drawback certificates, of said District. SEC. 7. During the remainder of the current fiscal year and during

spMecaifxieid. mum rates the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve no more than the following

rates shall be paid for lighting avenues, streets, roads, alleys, and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. I

CH. 12. 1911 .

1009

public spaces,

except as to the rate for mantle gas lamps,

which

rate

Mantle cepted.

lamps

ex-

herein specified shall apply only after the expiration of the existing

contract for mantle gas lighting, but not for a longer period thañ until

the end of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve unless hereafter otherwise provided :
For mantle gas lamps of sixty candlepower, eighteen dollars and Mantle gas lamps.

forty cents per lamp per annum. For street designation lamps, using flat-flame burners, consuming laSmtprse,eettc.designation
not more than two and one-half cubic feet of gas per hour, or eight-

candlepower incandescent electric lamps, with posts and lanterns
furnished by the District of Columbia, ten dollars per lamp per
annum. Incandescent elec-
For forty candlepower, fifty watt, incandescent electric lamps on triolamps overhead wires, fifteen dollars per lamp per annum.

For forty candlepower, fifty watt, incandescent electric lamps on

underground wires, nineteen dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum .

For sixty candlepower, seventy-five watt, incandescent electric lamps on overheadswires, seventeen dollars and' fifty cents per lamp per annum.
For sixty candlepower, seventy-five watt, incandescent electric lamps on underground wires, twenty-three dollars per lamp per annum .
For eighty candlepower, one hundred watt, incandescent electric

lamps on underground wires, twenty-six dollars per lamp per annum. For one hundred candlepower, one hundred and twenty-five watt,
incandescent electric lamps on underground wires, twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum.

For one hundred and fifty candlepower, one hundred and eightyseven watt, incandescent electric lamps on underground wires, thirtysix dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum.

For two hundred candlepower, two hundred and fifty watt, incandescent electric lamps on underground wires; forty-six dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum.
For four-glower Nernst lamps on underground wires, fifty-two dol- . lars and fifty cents per lamp per annum..

Nernst lamps.

For six and six-tenths ampere, five hundred and twenty-eight watt, laSmeprsie. s-inclosed are direct-current, series-inclosed arc lamps, eighty dollars per lamp per annum.

For five-ampere, five hundred and fifty watt, direct-current, multi- arMcullatmippsl.e-inclosed ple-inclosed arc lamps, eighty dollars per lamp per annum..
For four-ampere, three-hundred-and-twenty-watt magnetite, or ,laMmapgsn,etite, etc., arc other arc lamps of equal illuminating valué acceptable to the Commissioners ofthe District of Columbia, on overhead wires, fifty-nine dollars per lamp per annum.

For four-ampere, three-hundred-and-twenty-watt magnetite, or other arc lamps of equal illuminating value acceptable to the Commissioners ofthe District of Columbia, on underground wires, seventy-
two dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum. For six and six-tenths ampere, five-hundred-watt magnetite, or
other arc lamps of equal illuminating value acceptable to the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, on overhead wires, eighty-four dollars per lamp per annum.

For six and six-tenths ampere, five-hundred-watt magnetite, or other arc lamps of equal illuminating value acceptable to the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, on underground wires, ninety-

seven dollars and fifty cents per lamp per annum. For flame arc lamps, five hundred watt, Géneral Electric type, or
other arc lamps of equal illuminating value acceptable to the Commissioners ofthe District of Columbia, one hundred and fifty dollars per lamp per annum.

Flame arc lamps.

1010

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 192. 1911.

Proviso. Present inclosed Provided, That except as otherwise directed by the Commissioners lamps to be replaced. of the District of Columbia, all series-inclosed and multiple-inclosed
arc lamps now in service shall be replaced by the lighting company,
without expense to the District of Columbia, with four-ampere, three-hundred-and-twenty-watt magnetite, or other arc lamps of
equal illuminating value acceptable to the Commissioners of the Dis-

trict of Columbia, by April first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, and such replacement shall be effected to the number of not less than four

Maintenance, Aix- huFnodrretdhlearmaptsespenramaendnuambouvnteilitcsohmaplllebteedt. he duty of each gaslight

tures, etc., by lighting

companies.

company and each electric-light company doing business in the

District of Columbia to erect and maintain such street lamps as the

Commissioners of said District may direct; and each such company

shall furnish, install, and maintain all posts, lamps, lanterns, burners,

wires, cable, conduits, gas pipes, street designations, and fixtures necessary for the respective lamps maintained by each of them,

Cost allowed lamp-posts.

including lighting and extinguishing lamps, and repairing, painting, and cleaning. for The cost of each lamp-post (exclusive of erection), including the
lantern, globe, and street designations, furnished by any lighting company under the above rates shall not exceed fifteen dollars for

each gas or electric incandescent lamp nor fifty dollars for each electric arc lamp, except as hereinafter provided, and each post and

Allowance greater cost.

its equipment shall be of a design and quality acceptable to the for Commissioners of the District of Columbia. For each such lamp-
post furnished by a lighting company by direction of the District Commissioners which shall cost in excess of fifteen dollars for gas or electric incandescent lamps, or which shall cost in excess of fifty dollars for electric arc lamps, the company furnishing the same shall

receive, in addition to the above rates, eleven per centum per annum on such additional or excess cost.

Equipment fur- The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized in sniiosnheerds. by Commis- their discretion to purchase or construct from street-lighting appro-

priations made in this Act, posts, lanterns, street designations, and all

Proviso.

necessaryfixtures or appurtenances for any of the systems of lighting

Deductions there above named : Provided, That whenever the said commissioners shall

for.

furnish the said equipment, one dollar and sixty-five cents per lamp.

per annum for gas or electric incandescent lamps and four dollars

and forty cents per lamp per annum for electric arc lamps shall be.

deducted from the rates above fixed.

Adoption of other forms oflighting.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are further author-

ized, in their discretion, to adopt other forms of electric street lighting

than those named, in which event payments under appropriations

made in this Act, shall be made for the lighting service rendered at

not to exceed three cents per kilowatt hour for current consumed, reMntacxoinmsuummefdo.r cur- and, in addition thereto, eleven per centum per annum of the cost

to the lighting company of furnishing and installing lamps, posts,

street designations, fixtures, and the cable from lamps to the nearest

point of current supply, and a fair sum for the cost of maintenance. Moving, etc., lamps. When ordered to do so by the said commissioners, lighting com-

panies shall move and readjust any lamps maintained by them at

Rates allowed.

the following rates: For each electric arc lamp, ten dollars.

For each electric incandescent lamp, five dollars.

For each gas lamp moved not more than six feet, two dollars and

fifty cents .

For each gas lamp moved more than six feet, four dollars.
For each gas lamp raised or lowered to new grade, one dollar and
fifty cents. Naphtha or oil The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized to lamps.
enter into contract, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS, III. CHS. 192, 193. 1911 .

1011

Contracts authorwith any responsible person, firm, company, or corporation for the ized.

maintenance of naphtha or oil lamps, equipped with mantle burners

of not less than sixty candlepower, at a price. not to exceed twenty-

two dollars. and eighty cents per lamp per annum, which price shall

include the entire cost of furnishing, installing, and maintaining all

necessary posts, lanterns, burners, street designations, and fixtures.

SEO. 8. Hereafter each and every public gas, naphtha, or oil lamp ,reAqlulirendi.ght service in the District of Columbia shall burn each night from twenty

minutes after sunset until forty minutes before sunrise, and each and

every electric lamp shall burn from fifteen minutes after sunset until

forty-five minutes before sunrise, in accordance with schedules to

be prepared by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

Hereafter no public electric lamp shall be maintained by means of inNfoireolviemrihtse,aedtc.wires

overhead wires within either the city limits of Washington or the

existing fire limits of the District of Columbia.

Hereafter proportionate deductions shall be made from the amounts

Proportionate os forfailingto

due lighting companies for failure to furnish the illumination required lfiugrhnti.sh legal standard by law for public lighting in the District of Columbia, and each

company shall furnish, at its own expense, when and as required by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, all proper and neces-

sary facilities, testing places, and apparatus at its plant, and such

help at points on its mains or circuits as to enable the said com-

missioners to determine whether the required illumination is being
furnished. For each and every lamp which shall be extinguished foDrledaumcptsinoontbpurronirantgs. or not lighted during any portion of the schedule time of lighting, a pro rata deduction, based upon the period of nonillumination and the price per lamp, shall be made from said amounts.

Hereafter the Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall not quciornetdr.acts not re be required to execute contracts for gas and electric lighting..

Hereafter any gaslight company or any electric-light company toPfeunranlitshylfaormrpesf,uesticn.g doing business in the District of Columbia, which shall fail or refuse to

furnish, erect, maintain, move, or discontinue any street lamp in compliance with the foregoing provisions as the Commissioners of the District of Columbia may direct, shall be subject to a penalty of

twenty-five dollars for each and every day's failure or refusal so to
do, to be recovered at law in the name of .the District of Columbia in any court of competent jurisdiction.

When ordered by the commissioners to do so, lighting companies l,aDmipssc,oenttc.inuance of in the District of Columbia shall discontinue any public lamps main-

tained by them without further payment therefor, and shall remove

from the streets, at their own expense, all posts, lanterns, and fixtures connected therewith.

SEO. 9. The Superintendent of the Capitol Building and Grounds capite, etc., may

may transfer apparatus, appliances, equipments, and supplies of transfer discontinued any kind, discontinued or permanently out of service, to such other apparatus,etc. branches of the service of the United States, or District of Columbia,

whenever, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, in his

judgment the interests of the Government service may require it.

A detailed statement of all such transfers shall be submitted in the Statementrequired.

annual report to Congress of the Superintendent of the Capitol

Building and Grounds.

SEO.

10.

That all laws and parts of laws to the extent that they are

Inconsistent repealed.

laws

inconsistent with this act are repealed. ·

Approved, March 2, 1911 .

CHAP. 193.--An Act To authorize the Sheridan Railway and Light Company to construct and operate railway, telegraph, telephone, electric power, and trolley lines through the Fort Mackenzie Military Reservation, and for other purposes.

March 2, 1911. [S. 9903.]
[Public, No. 442] ·

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Fort Mackenzie
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Sheridan Railway. MWiyloit.ary Reservation, and Light Company, a corporation created under and by virtue of the

1012

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 193, 194. 1911 .

anSdherLiidgahtn CRoamiplawnayy laws of the State of Wyoming, be, and the same is hereby, empowered

gtrharnotuegdh.right of way to survey, locate,.construct, maintain, and operate railway, telegraph, telephone, electric power, and trolley. lines through the Fort Mac-

kenzie Military Reservation, in Sheridan County, State of Wyoming,

upon such terms and in such location as may be determined and

Width, etc.

approved by the Secretary of War. SEC. 2. That said corporation is authorized to occupy and use for

all purposes of railway, telegraph, telephone, electric power, and

trolley lines, and for no other purpose, a right of way fifty feet in

width through said Fort Mackenzie Military Reservation, with the

right to use such additional ground where cuts and fills may be necessary for the construction and maintenance of the roadbed, not

Provisos. Use restricted.

exceeding one hundred feet in width, or as much thereof as may be included in said cut or fill: Provided, That no part of the land herein

authorized to be occupied shall be used except in such manner and

for such purposes as shall be necessary for the construction and

convenient operation of said railway, telegraph, telephone, electric power, and trolley lines; and when any portion thereof shall cease

Approval of location. to be so used such portion shall revert to the United States: Provided further, That before the said railway company shall be permitted to
enter upon any part of said military reservation a description by
metes and bounds of the land herein authorized to be occupied or

Compliance with used shall be approved by the Secretary of War: Provided further, regulations, etc. That the said railway company shall comply with such other regula-
tions and conditions in the maintenance and operation of said road

Amendment.

as may from time to time be prescribed by the Secretary of War. SEO. 3. The right , to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby
expressly reserved.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

March 2, 1911. [S. 9904.] .
[Public, No. 443.]

CHAP. 194.--An Act Granting certain rights of way on the Fort D. A. Russell Military Reservation at Cheyenne, Wyoming, for railroad and county-road purposes.

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Rights of way. Fort D. A. Russell,

States of America in Congress assembled, That

the

Colorado

Railroad

Wyo.

Company, a corporation created by and organized under the laws of

roTaod CCoomlporaandyo. Rall- the State of Colorado, and authorized to do business in the States of

Colorado and Wyoming, is hereby authorized to build its line of rail-

Location.

road on the following-described portion of the Fort D. A. Russell Military Reservation, to wit:
Beginning at a point on the east boundary line of the military

reservation, said point being the northeast corner of the northwest

quarter of section one, township thirteen.north, range sixty-seven

west; thence south along the east boundary line of military reservation two thousand three hundred and ninety feet to a point; thence

north nine degrees, twenty-one minutes west, three hundred forty-

four and three - tenths feet to a point which is .fifty-six feet west of

the east line of said military, reservation; thence north one degree,

four, minutes east, two thousand and fifty-five feet to the place of

beginning.

ToLaramie County, Wyo.

SEO. 2. That a right of way for a county road for use of the public

For county road. is hereby granted to the County of Laramie, a municipal corporation

of the State of Wyoming, upon the following portion of the Fort

D. A. Russell Military Reservation at Cheyenne, Wyoming, more

Location.

particularly described as follows: * Commencing at a point on the east line of said military reservation,

said point being the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of

section one, township thirteen north, range sixty-seven west of the sixth principal meridian; thence south along the said east line of said ·

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cas. 194-197. · 1911 .
military reservation to the southeast corner thereof; thence northwesterly on the southwesterly boundary line of said military reservation to a point which is one hundred and fifty feet west of the east line of said reservation when measured at right angles thereto; thence north on a line one hundred and fifty feet west of and parallel with the easterly boundary line of said reservation to the north line of the northwest quarter of said section one; thence east one hundred and fifty feet along the north line of said section one, to the place of beginning, said strip of land being one hundred and fifty feet in width on the east side of that portion of said reservation situated in section one, township thirteen north, range sixty-seven west, as aforesaid; saving and excepting therefrom that portion of said strip of land hereinabove, in section one of this Act, described as granted to the Colorado Railroad Company for the purpose of its railroad.
Approved, March 2, 1911

1013

CHAP. 195.-An Act To restrain the Secretary of the Treasury from receiving bonds issued to provide money for the building of the Panama Canal as security for the issue of circulating notes to national banks, and for other purposes.

March 2, 1911. [S. 10156.]
[Public, No. 444.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the boPnadsn.ama Canal Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to insert in the bonds to be Not receivable for issued by him under section thirty-nine of an Act entitled "An Act to nlation.al-bank circu provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the Anie, p. 117.
United States, and for other purposes," approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, a provision that such bonds shall not be receivable by the Treasurer of the United States as security for the issue of circulating notes to national banks; and the bonds containing such provision shall not be receivable for that purpose.
Approved, March 2, 1911.

CHAP. 196.- An Act To authorize the county of Ouachita, in the State of Arkangas, to construct a bridge across Ouachita River.
Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

March 2, 1911. [S. 10882.]
[Public, No. 445.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the county of Ouachita, Ouachita RiCvoeur.nty, in the State of Arkansas, be, and is hereby, authorized to construct, Ark., may bridge, at
Camden . maintain, and operate a traffic bridge and approaches thereto across Ante, p. 178.
the Ouachita River at Camden, Arkansas, in accordance with the pro-

visions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of a Vol.34, p. 84.
bridge over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.

SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

CHAP. 197.-An Act To fix the time of holding the circuit and district courts for March 2, 1911.

the northern district of West Virginia.

[H. R. 28215.]

[Public, No. 446.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United West Virginia States of America in Congress assembled, That so much of the Act northern judicial dis
of Congress approved February eleventh, nineteen hundred and seven, trict.

entitled "An Act to fix the time of holding the circuit and district courts for the northern district of West Virginia," as relates to the time of holding the regular terms of the circuit and district courts of

the United States for the northern district of West Virginia, be amended so as to read as follows:

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-60

!

1014

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 197-199. 1911 .

Terms.

Vol. 34, p . 890, Regular terms of the circuit and district courts of the United States

amended.

for the northern district of West Virginia shall begin at the following

Post, p.1129.

times and places in each year: At Martinsburg, the first Tuesday of

April and the third Tuesday of September; at Clarksburg, the second

Tuesday of April and the first Tuesday of October; at Wheeling, the

first Tuesday of May and the third Tuesday of October; at Philippi,

the fourth Tuesday of May and second Tuesday of November; at

Parkersburg, the second Tuesday of January and second Tuesday of

Proviso.

June: Provided, That a place for holding said courts at Philippi shall

ippCio.urt room at Phil- be furnished to the Government free of cost by the county of Bar-

bour until other provision is made therefor by law.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

March 2,1911.

CHAP. 198.-An Act To amend the internal-revenue laws relating to distilled

[H.R.28626.] spirits, and for other purposes.

[Public, No. 447.]

Internal revenue. Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Distilled spirits. States of America in Congress assembled, That section thirty-two

Vol. 29, p. 195.

hundred and fifty-five of the Revised Statutes, as amended by Act of

June third, eighteen hundred and ninety-six (Twenty-ninth Statutes,

page one hundred and ninety-five), be amended so as to read as follows:

Fruit brandies. R. S.,sec. 3255, p. 27,

SEO. 3255. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the

amended. Exemption

from

approval

of the

Secretary

of

the

Treasury,

may exempt

distillers of

gteinonesr.al spirit regula- brandy made exclusively from apples, peaches, grapes, pears, pineapples, oranges, apricots, berries, plums, pawpaws, persimmons,

. prunes, figs, or cherries from any provision of this title relating to

Proviso.

the manufacture of spirits , except as to the tax thereon, when in his

Use of artificial judgment it may seem expedient to do so: Provided, That where, in

smiwteteedt.ening per- the manufacture of wine, artificial sweetening has been used the wine or the fruit pomace residuum may be used in the distillation of

brandy, and such use shall not prevent the Commissioner of Internal

Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, from

exempting such distiller from any provision of this title relating to the manufacture of spirits, except as to the tax thereon, when in his

judgment it may seem expedient to do so."

Approved, March 2, 1911

March 2, 1911. [H.R. 29857.] [Public, No. 448.]

CHAP. 199.--An Act To amend section thirty-two hundred and eighty-seven of the Revised Statutes of the United States as amended by section six of chapter one hundred and eight of an Act approved May twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and eighty, page one hundred and forty-five, volume twenty-one, United States Statutes at Large.

Internal revenue. Beit enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

· Distilled spirits. Vol. 21, p.147.

States of America in Congress assembled, That section thirty two

R. S. sec. 3287,p. 636. hundred and eighty-seven of the Revised Statutes of the United

amended.

States, as amended by section six of chapter one hundred and eight

of an Act approved May twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and eighty,

page one hundred and forty-five of volume twenty-one, United States

Statutes at Large, be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read
Withdrawal in met- as follows: al tanks or tank cars "Provided further, That alcohol or high-proof spirits withdrawn ifnrenetofutsaex. forGovern- free of tax for the use of the United States, as authorized by section

B.S. ,sec. 3464, p. 656. thirty-four hundred and sixty-four, Revised Statutes, may be drawn off for transfer by pipes direct from the receiving cisterns in the

cistern room of any distillery to closed metal storage tanks situated in the distillery bonded warehouse and transferred from such storage tanks to tanks or tank cars for shipment, upon the execution of such bonds and under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 200, 201 , 207. 1911 .

1015

CHAP. 200.-An Act Limiting the privileges of the Government free bathhouse on the public reservation at Hot Springs, Arkansas, to persons who are without and unable to obtain the means to pay for baths.

March 2, 1911. (H.R.32082.]
[Public, No. 449.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That only persons who are

Hot Springs, Ark. Use of free bath-

without and unable to obtain the means to pay for baths and are suf- house limited.

fering from ailments for which bathing in the water of the Hot

Springs Reservation will afford relief or effect a cure shall be per-
mitted to bathe at the free bathhouse on the public reservation at Hot Springs, Arkansas, and before any person shall be permitted to bathe Oath required of at the free bathhouse on the reservation he shall be required to make lack ofmeans,etc.

oath, before such officer duly authorized to administer oaths for general purposes as the superintendent of the Hot Springs Reservation

shall designate, that he is without and unable to obtain the means to pay for baths, and any person desiring to bathe at the free bathhouse Punishment for on the Hot Springs Reservation making a false oath as to his financial false oath.

condition shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of not to exceed twenty-five

dollars, or thirty days' imprisonment, or both.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

CHAP. 201.- An Act To protect the locators in good faith of oil and gas lands who shall have effected an actual discovery of oil or gas on the public lands of the United States, or their successors in interest.

March2, 1911. [H.R.S2344. ]
[Public, No. 450.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That in no case shall patent

Public lands. Locators of mineral

be denied to or for any lands heretofore located or claimed under the oilPaltaenndts.s not to be mining laws of the United States containing petroleum, mineral oil, denied, solely for or gas solely because of any transfer or assignment thereof or of any transfer before tovery,etc. dis-

interest or interests therein by the original locator or locators, or any

of them, to any qualified persons or person, or corporation, prior to discovery of oil or gas therein, but if such claim is in all other

respects valid and regular, patent therefor not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres in any one claim shall issue to the holder or holders thereof, as in other cases: Provided, however, That such lands were not at the time of inception of development on or under such claim withdrawn from mineral entry.

Proviso. Condition.

Approved, March 2, 1911.

CHAP. 207.-An Act Making appropriations for the supportof the Military Acad-
emy for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

March8, 1911. [EL.R.82436. ]
[Public, No. 451.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of América in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, apMpirloiptrairaytioAnsc.ademy and the same are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the

Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the support of the Military

Academy for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT.

Permanent establishment.

For pay of seven professors, twenty-six thousand five hundred Professors, etc. dollars;

For pay of one chaplain, two thousand four hundred dollars ;

For pay of the master of the sword, two thousand four hundred

dollars ;

For pay of cadets, three hundred thousand dollars ;

Cadets.

For

extra

pay

of

officers

of

the

Army

on

detached

service

at

the

Extra cers.

pay

for

off-

Military Academy:

1016

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

For pay of one commandant of cadets (lieutenant colonel) , in addi-

tion to pay as captain, one thousand one hundred and forty dollars;

For pay of one professor of ordnance and science of gunnery (lieutenant colonel) , in addition to pay as major, five hundred dollars ;
For pay of one professor of law (lieutenant colonel) , in addition to pay as major, five hundred dollars ;
For pay of one instructor of practical military engineering (major) , in addition to pay as captain, six hundred dollars ;

For pay of nine assistant professors (captains), two of whom are hereby authorized hereafter for the department of English and history and the department of ordnance and gunnery, one for each department, respectively, in addition to pay as first lieutenants, three thousand six hundred dollars ;

For pay of two battalion commanders (majors), in addition to pay as captains, one thousand two hundred dollars;

For pay of three senior assistant instructors of artillery and infantry tactics and practical military engineering (captains), in addition to pay as first lieutenants, one thousand two hundred dollars; .

For pay of seven instructors of cavalry, artillery, and infantry tactics (captains), in addition to pay as second lieutenants, four thousand nine hundred dollars ;

For pay of one adjutant, who shall not be above the rank of captain, six hundred dollars;
For pay of one quartermaster and commissary of cadets and
treasurer, in addition to pay as captain, six hundred dollars ; For pay of one line officer, on duty in quartermaster's department
at academy, in addition to pay as first lieutenant, four hundred dollars ;

For pay of one associate professor of mathematics (major), in addition to pay as captain, six hundred dollars;
For pay of one associate professor of modern languages (major) ,

Constructing termaster.
Proviso. Restriction.
Longevity.

quar- in addition to pay as captain, six hundred dollars;. For pay of one constructing quartermaster, in addition to his
regular pay, one thousand dollars : Provided, That this increased salary shall only apply during the time this office is held by the present incumbent ;
For additional pay of professors and officers (and officers on

increased rank) for length of service, twelve thousand dollars ;

Enlisted men.

For pay of the Military Academy band, field musicians, general Army service, cavalry and artillery detachments, and enlisted men

Military band.

on detached service, and extra pay for enlisted men on special duty: For pay of military band: One band sergeant and assistant leader,

nine hundred dollars;

Twelve enlisted musicians, at forty-five dollars per month, six thousand four hundred and eighty dollars ;

Field musicians.

Twelve enlisted musicians, at thirty-six dollars per month, five thousand one hundred and eighty-four dollars ;
Sixteen enlisted musicians, at thirty dollars per month, five thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars ;
Additional pay for length of service, five thousand six hundred dollars ;
For pay of field musicians: One sergeant, six hundred dollars ; One corporal, two hundred and fifty-two dollars;

Twenty-two privates, at one hundred and eighty dollars each,

three thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars;

Additional pay for length of service, six hundred dollars ;

General Army serv-

ice .

For pay of general Army service: One first sergeant, five hundred

and forty dollars ;

Eight sergeants, two thousand eight hundred and eighty dollars;

Nine corporals, two thousand two hundred and sixty-eight dollars ; Two cooks , seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

1017

One hundred and eighty privates, thirty-two thousand four hundred dollars ;

" Additional pay for length of service, eighteen thousand dollars ; Extra pay, QuarterExtra pay of the enlisted men of the Army service detachment, master's Department.
Quartermaster's Department, on extra duty at West Point, twentyfour thousand dollars;
For pay of cavalry detachment: One first sergeant, five hundred Cavalry detach-

and forty dollars ; One stable sergeant, three hundred and sixty dollars ; Five sergeants, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; Two cooks, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; Eight corporals, two thousand and sixteen dollars ; Two trumpeters, three hundred and sixty dollars; One horseshoer, three hundred and sixty dollars ; One farrier, two hundred and fifty-two dollars ; One saddler, two hundred and fifty-two dollars; One wagoner, two hundred and fifty-two dollars; Seventy-seven privates (cavalry) , thirteen thousand eight hundred
and sixty dollars;
Additional pay for length of service, seven thousand and eightyeight dollars;
Forpay of artillery detachment : One first sergeant, five hundred and meAnrtti.llery forty dollars ;
One quartermaster sergeant, three hundred and sixty dollars;
One stable sergeant, three hundred and sixty dollars ; One chief mechanic, two hundred and eighty-eight dollars; . Six sergeants, two thousand one-hundred and sixty dollars ; Three cooks, one thousand and eighty dollars ; Twelve corporals, three thousand and twenty-four dollars ; Four mechanics, one thousand and eight dollars;
Two trumperers, three hundred and sixty dollars ; One hundred and two privates, eighteen thousand three hundred ' and sixty dollars;
One electrician sergeant, five hundred and forty dollars ; One electrician sergeant, second class, four hundred and thirty-two dollars;

detach-

One master gunner, four hundred and eighty dollars ; For additional pay for first and second class gunners, one thousand six hundred and eighty dollars;

Additional pay for length of service, one thousand eight hundred dollars ;
Bonus to enlisted men reenlisting within three months from date Reenlistmentbonus.
of discharge, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five dollars ; Travel allowances to enlisted men on discharge, eight hundred and chTarragvee.l, etc., on dis-
three dollars and four cents;

Clothing not drawn due enlisted men on discharge, eight thousand and seventy-one dollars;

Interest on deposits. due enlisted men, one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars;
For extra pay of three enlisted men employed as clerks in the meEnxt. ra pay, enlisted office of the adjutant, United States Military Academy, at fifty cents each per day, five hundred and forty-nine dollars;
For extra pay of two enlisted men employed as clerks in the office of the commandant of cadets, at fifty cents each per day, three hundred and sixty-six dollars;

For extra pay of four enlisted men employed as printers, at headquarters United States Military Academy, at fifty cents each per day, six hundred and twenty-six dollars ;
For extra pay of one enlisted man employed as watchman, at thirtyfive cents per day, one hundred and ninety-two dollars and fifteen cents;

1018

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

Extra pay, enlisted

men-Continued.

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed as trumpeter at the

cadet barracks, at thirty-five cents per day, one hundred and sixty dollars and thirteen cents;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed in the philosophical

department observatory as a mechanic, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed in the philosophical department in care of apparatus, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;
For extra pay of two enlisted men employed in the chemical department, at fifty cents per day, three hundred and thirteen dollars ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed in the department of drawing, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;
For extra pay of one enlisted man employed in the mathematical department, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;

For extra pay of one ordnance soldier employed as draftsman and lithographic printer, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents;

For extra pay of one ordnance soldier employed as machinist, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents;
For extra pay of one ordnance soldier employed as clerk, at fifty, cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;
For pay of one noncommissioned officer in charge of Army service detachment mess, seventy-two dollars ;
For extra pay of one ordnance soldier when employed in depart-

ment of ordnance and gunnery, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;
For extra pay of two enlisted men (cavalrymen) when performing special skilled mechanical labor, at fifty cents each per day, three hundred and thirteen dollars ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man ( cavalryman) employed as saddler, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and

fifty cents ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man on duty in charge of engineer property and fatigue, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fiftysix dollars and fifty cents;

For extra pay of four enlisted men employed as assistants and attendants at the library, at fifty cents each per day, six hundred and eighty-four dollars;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed as clerk in the department of practical military engineering and to the officer in charge of waterworks and works of construction at the Military Academy, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents;
For extra pay of three enlisted men employed as clerks in the office of the quartermaster, United States Military Academy, at fifty cents each per day, five hundred and twenty-one dollars and fifty cents ;

For extra pay of three enlisted men ( artillerymen) when performing extra mechanical labor, at fifty cents each per day, four hundred and sixty-nine dollars and fifty cents ;
For extra pay of two enlisted men employed as messengers in the office of the adjutant, United States Military Academy, at thirty-five cents each per day, two hundred and nineteen dollars and ten cents;
For extra pay of one enlisted man in charge of property and saddle equipment pertaining to riding and equitation other than military,

one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed as clerk in charge of clothing room in quartermaster's storehouse, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

1019

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed in the department of civil and military engineering, at fifty cents per day, one hundred
and fifty-six dollars and fifty cents ; For extra pay of one sergeant (cavalryman) in charge of stables
and horses, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and eighty-three dollars;

For extra pay of two teamsters (cavalrymen), at thirty-five cents each per day, two hundred and fifty-six dollars and twenty cents;
For extra pay of nine laborers (cavalrymen) employed in keeping clean the equipments used by cadets in riding, nine hundred and eighty-five dollars and ninety-five cents;

For extra pay of one sergeant of engineers, acting first sergeant,

one hundred and eight dollars:

Provisos.

Provided, That hereafter the pay and allowances of the acting first Actingfirstsergeant,

sergeant of the United States Military Academy detachment of engineers.

engineers shall be the same as the pay and allowances of a first ser- Retired pay. geant of a company of engineers : And provided further, That when

an acting first sergeant of the detachment of engineers may hereafter
be retired, his retired pay and allowances shall be the same as the pay and allowances of a retired first- sergeant of a company of engineers.

For extra pay of two cooks of engineers, at twelve dollars per month each, two hundred and eighty-eight dollars ;

For extra pay of one enlisted man employed as skilled attendant

in ordnance museum, at fifty cents per day, one hundred and fifty-six

dollars and fifty cents:

Proviso.

Provided, That the extra pay provided by the preceding para- Noduplication.

graphs shall not be paid to any enlisted man who receives extra-

duty pay under existing laws or Army regulations.

PAY OF CIVILIANS.

Pay ofcivilians.

For pay of one teacher of music, one thousand seven hundred dollars;
For pay of clerk to the disbursing officer and quartermaster, one thousand five hundred dollars ;
For pay of clerk to adjutant in charge of cadet records, one thousand five hundred dollars;
For pay of one clerk to the adjutant, one thousand five hundred dollars;
For pay of clerk to treasurer, one thousand eight hundred dollars;
For pay of one clerk to the quartermaster, one thousand four hundred dollars;
For pay of two civilian instructors in French, to be employed under rules prescribed by the Secretary of War, two thousand dollars per year each, four thousand dollars;
For pay of two civilian instructors in Spanish, at two thousand dollars per year each, to be employed under rules prescribed by the Secretary of War, four thousand dollars;
For pay of two expert civilian instructors in fencing, broadsword exercises, and other military gymnastics as may be required to perfect this part of the training of cadets, three thousand dollars;
For pay of one professional civilian instructor in gymnastics, athletics, and swimming, one thousand five hundred dollars ;
For pay of one clerk and stenographer in the office of the quartermaster and disbursing officer, one thousand two hundred dollars;
For pay of one clerk in the office of the quartermaster, one thousand four hundred dollars;
For pay of one librarian, three thousand dollars; For pay of assistant librarian, one thousand two hundred dollars; For pay of one custodian of gymnasium, who shall hereafter be selected and appointed bythe Superintendent of the Military Academy

Athletic trainer. Appointment.

1020

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911 .

CoPnatiynuoefd. civilians

under Schedule A, classified positions excepted from examination under rule two, clause three, civil-service rules, who shall be qualified to act as trainer for the various cadet athletic teams, one thousand two hundred dollars ;
For pay of one superintendent of gas works, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

For pay of engineer of heating and ventilating apparatus for the academic building, the cadet barracks and office building, cadet hospital, chapel, and library, one thousand eight hundred dollars;

For pay of assistant engineer of same, one thousand dollars; For pay of eleven firemen, seven thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars ; For pay of one draftsman in department of civil and military engineering, one thousand two hundred dollars; For pay of mechanic and attendant skilled in the technical preparations necessary to chemical and electrical lectures and to the instruction in mineralogy and geology, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

For pay of mechanic assistant in department of natural and experimental philosophy, one thousand dollars;
For pay of custodian of academy building, one thousand dollars ;
For pay of one electrician, one thousand five hundred dollars; For pay of one chief plumber, one thousand five hundred dollars ;
For pay of assistant plumber, nine hundred dollars; For pay of one plumber's helper, six hundred dollars ; For pay of one scavenger, at sixty dollars a month, seven hundred
and twenty dollars ; For pay of chapel organist and choir master, one thousand two
hundred dollars;

For pay of superintendent of post cemetery, one thousand two hundred dollars ;
For pay of engineer and janitor for Memorial Hall, nine hundred dollars ;

For pay of printer at headquarters, United States Military Academy one thousand five hundred dollars;
For pay of one assistant printer at headquarters, United States Military Academy, one thousand dollars;
For pay of one janitress, Memorial Hall, six hundred dollars ;
For pay of one master mechanic, one thousand eight hundred dollars ;

For pay of attendant and skilled photographer in the department of drawing, one thousand two hundred dollars ;
For pay of one typewriter, copyist, and attendant in charge of the library in the department of law, seven hundred and fifty dollars ;
For pay of one stenographer and typewriter in the adjutant's office, one thousand dollars ;
For pay of one clerk and stenographer in adjutant's office (to be immediately available) , one thousand dollars;
For pay of one overseer of the waterworks, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;
For pay of one engineer of steam, electric, and refrigerating apparatus for the cadets' mess, eight hundred and forty dollars;

For pay, of one copyist, typewriter, and attendant in the department of modern languages, seven hundred and fifty dollars;
For pay of one mechanic and attendant skilled in the operation necessary forthe preparation of lectures and ofmaterial in the depart-

ment of drawing, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;
For pay of janitor for bachelor officers' quarters, six hundred dollars ;

For pay of one chief engineer of power plant, two thousand four hundred dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

1021

For pay of three engineers for power plant, three thousand six hun- CoPnatiynuoefd.civilians-

dred dollars ;

1.

For pay of two oilers for power plant, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ;
For pay of one attendant in the department of philosophy for the handling of models and materials used in the instruction of cadets, four hundred and eighty dollars ;
For pay of one copyist, typewriter, and attendant in the department of English and history, seven hundred and fifty dollars;
For pay of one bookbinder at headquarters, United States Military Academy, one thousand two hundred dollars ;
For pay of two book sewers in bindery, nine hundred and sixty dollars ;

For pay of one skilled pressman in the printing office, headquarters, United States Military Academy, one thousand dollars;
For pay of one charwoman, four hundred and eighty dollars ; For pay of six clerks in the office of the adjutant, headquarters, United States Military Academy, seven thousand dollars ; For pay of one messenger for the superintendent of the United States Military Academy, seven hundred and twenty dollars;: All the money hereinbefore appropriated for pay of the Military Academy shall be disbursed and accounted for by officers of the Pay. Department as pay of the Military Academy and for that purpose shall constitute one fund. 
For current and ordinary expenses as follows: For the expenses of the members of the Board of Visitors, one thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary ; Contingencies for superintendent of the academy, three thousand dollars;

Current expenses. Board of Visitors.
Superintendent.

Repairs and improvements, namely: Timber, planks, boards, Repairs, etc. joists, wall strips, laths, shingles, slate, tin, sheet lead, zinc, nails,. screws, locks, hinges, glass, paints, turpentine, oils, varnish, brushes, stone, brick, flag, lime, cement, plaster hair, sewer and drain pipe, blasting powder, fuse, iron, steel, tools, machinery, mantels, and other similar materials, renewing roofs, and .for pay of architect,

overseer and citizen mechanics, and labor employed upon repairs and improvements that can not be done by enlisted men, forty thousand dollars ;

For fuel and apparatus, namely: Coal, wood, charcoal, stoves, grates, heaters, furnaces, ranges and fixtures, fire bricks, clay, sand, and for repairs of steam-heating and coal-conveying apparatus, grates, stoves, heaters, ranges, furnaces, and mica, -thirty-three thousand dollars ;

Fuel, etc.

For gas pipes, gas and electric fixtures, electric lamps, telephone and lighting supplies , lamp-posts, gasometers and retorts, and annual repairs of the same, six thousand five hundred dollars ;

For fuel for cadets' mess hall, shops, and laundry, ten thousand

dollars ;

.

For postage and telegrams, three hundred and seventy-five dollars; grPaomsst.age and teleFor stationery, namely: Blank books, paper, envelopes, quills, Stationery. steel pens, rubbers, erasers, pencils, mucilage, wax, wafers, folders, fasteners, rules, files, ink, inkstands, typewriters, typewriting supplies, office furniture, penholders, tape, desk knives, blotting pads; and rubber bands, and for contingencies not otherwise provided for, two thousand five hundred dollars; For transportation of materials, discharged cadets, and for fer- Transportation. riages; for transportation of first class of cadets to and from Gettysburg battlefield ; for transportation of first and second classes of

cadets to and from Watervliet Arsenal and Sandy Hook Proving Grounds or other ordnance establishment; and for expenses of

1022

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

officers detailed to accompany cadets on these trips, three thousand six hundred dollars ;

Printing.

Printing: For printing and binding, type, materials for office,

including repairs to motors and machinery, diplomas for graduates,

annual registers, blanks, and monthly reports to parents of cadets,

and contingencies, two thousand dollars ; For one sewing machine and electric motor, complete, for use in

book bindery, seventy-five dollars ;

Department of cavalry,artillery, and in-

For department of cavalry, artillery, and infantry tactics : Tan

fantry tactics.

bark or other proper cover for riding hall, to be purchased in open

market upon written order of the superintendent, one thousand

eight hundred dollars ;

For camp stools, camp and office furniture, and repairs to same; for doormats for cadet barracks, sinks, and cadet headquarters ;

for stationery, typewriting supplies and repairs, for use of instructor and assistant instructors of tactics ; for books and maps, binding books, and mounting maps ; for plumes, silk and worsted sashes for cadet officers and acting officers ; for furniture, curtains, and rugs

Gymnasium, supplies.

for cadet reception room, one thousand four hundred and forty-five dollars ; etc., Gymnasium and athletic supplies : For repairs, new machines, athletic supplies and fixtures for gymnasium ; for foils, masks, belts,
fencing gloves, fencing jackets, gaiters, sabers, and repairs ; for repairs and improvements to dressing rooms, platform, and swimming tank, three thousand five hundred dollars ;
For repairs to saddles, bridles, purchase of leather, curb chains,
bits, stirrups, and so forth, and to keep the same in repair, two hundred and fifty dollars ;

For purchase of carbons, oils, cleaning materials, spare parts and repairs and maintenance of searchlight, and for purchase of rubber matting and heating apparatus for coast artillery fire-control stations, five hundred dollars :

For the purchase and installation of power cable for the searchlight for the instruction of cadets, four hundred and twenty-five dollars ;

For one typewriting machine and cabinet, for the senior instructor
of artillery tactics, one hundred and twenty-five dollars ; For construction of additional obstacles on new cavalry drill grounds
and to repair old obstacles, and the care of ground in the vicinity of same, one hundred dollars ;

For repair of typewriter, ten dollars ; For repair of mattresses, machines, and for replacing worn-out articles in gymnasium of cavalry barracks, one hundred dollars;

For repair of power clippers in cavalry stables and replacing wornout parts, twenty-five dollars ;

For renewing two hundred and twenty-six tent floors in cadet

camp, to be immediately available, five hundred dollars;

Department ofcivil

and military engi- For department of civil and military engineering: For models,

neering.

maps, purchase and repair of instruments, apparatus, drawing boards,

desks, chairs, shelves, and cases for books and instruments, textbooks,

books of reference, and stationery for the use of instructors, and

contingencies, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

Department of natural andexperimental

For department of natural and experimental philosophy: Additions

philosophy.

to apparatus to illustrate the principles of mechanics, acoustics,

optics, and astronomy ; books of reference, scientific periodicals,

textbooks, stationery, materials, and repairs; and for repairs to the

observatory buildings and repairs to clocks, and for contingent expenses not otherwise provided for, one thousand eight hundred

and fifty dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911 .

1023

For department of instruction in mathematics: Textbooks, books maDtehepmaatritcms.ent of of reference, binding, and stationery ; for tables of logarithms ; for
rulers and triangles; for purchase of geometrical drawings and models ; for cases for geometrical models ; for desks, chairs, bookcases, and office fittings ; and for contingencies, seven -hundred and twentyfive dollars;
For department of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology: Chemicals, chDeemipsatrryt, mmeinnetraolfchemical apparatus, glass and porcelain ware, paper, wire, sheet metal, ogy, and geology. ores, photographic apparatus and materials; rough specimens, fossils,
and for apparatus and materials to be used in the practical determi-
nation of mineralogical and geological specimens ; pencils and paper
forpractical instruction in the same branches, and for gradual increase and improvement of the cabinet ; for repairs and additions to electric, magnetic, pneumatic, thermic, and optical apparatus ; for purchase
of laboratory and power-room machinery and apparatus and in-
stallation of same; for models, maps, diagrams, books of reference, textbooks, and stationery for use of instructors ; and for contingent expenses not otherwise provided for, two thousand five hundred dollars ;
For department of drawing : Drawing material, instruments, and drDaewipnagr. tment of stationery for use of instructors ; repairs to models and purchase of
new models ; desks, stretchers, drawing boards, racks, and stands ; framing drawings ; books and periodicals on art, architecture, topography, and technology; binding maps, books, and so forth; repairs to stereopticon and purchase of lantern slides ; photographic apparatus and material; purchase of new instruments and repair of old ones, for use of cadets ; and for contingent expenses, one thousand five hundred and thirty dollars ;
For department of modern languages : For stationery, textbooks, erDnelpanrgtumaegnets.of modand books of reference for use of instructors, for repairs of books and apparatus and for office furniture, and for printing examination papers, and other necessary papers, and for contingencies, four hundred and ninety-eight dollars;
For department of law: For stationery, textbooks, and books of Department of law. reference for the use of instructors, maps, map fixtures, furniture, and ·
for repairs to the same, for rebinding books and periodicals, and for
contingencies, three hundred and fifty dollars ; For the department of practical military engineering: For pur- Delp,amritlmietnartyofepnrgacl
chase and repair of instruments; transportation; purchase of tools, neering. implements, and materials, and for extra-duty pay of engineer soldiers, as follows, namely: For instruments for use in instructing cadets in making reconnoissances ; photographic apparatus and material for field photography; drawing instruments and material for platting reconnoissances; surveying instruments; instruments and material for signaling and field telegraphy; transportation of field parties; tools and material for the preservation, augmentation, and repair of wooden pontoon, and one canvas pontoon train; sapping and mining tools and material; rope; cordage; material for rafts and for spar and trestle bridges; intrenching tools ; tools and material for the repair of Fort Clinton and the batteries of the academy, and for extra-duty pay of engineer soldiers, at fifty cents per day each, when performing special skilled mechanical labor in the department of practical military engineering;. for models, books of reference, and stationery, and for extra pay of one engineer soldier as assistant in photographic laboratory, and in charge of photographic-laboratory, photographic apparatus, materials, and supplies, at fifty cents per day, two thousand dollars ;
For the purchase of surveying instruments, one thousand dollars ;
For department of ordnance and gunnery: Purchase and repair of naDnecpeaarntmdegnutnonferoyrd. instruments, models, -and apparatus, and purchase of necessary

1024

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911 .

material ; for the purchase of samples of arms and accouterments other than those supplied to the military service ; for books of reference, textbooks , stationery, and lithographic printing materials, and for contingencies, four hundred and fifty dollars ;

Manufacture or purchase of models of breech mechanisms of cannon, rapid-fire guns, small arms, and the various machines and tools used

in their manufacture, for cadet instruction, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

For purchase of machines, tools, and material for practical instruc-

tion of cadets in wood and metal working, two thousand dollars ;

Department of milltary hygiene.

For department of military hygiene : For stationery, textbooks,

and books of reference for use of instructors; for the preparation of

plates, purchase of paper, and other expenses incidental to the print-

ing of syllabuses of lectures on parts of the subject not covered by

the regular textbooks ; for the purchase of charts , photographs, and pictures for use in demonstration; for the purchase of instruments and models ; for shelves and cases for books, instruments, and models

and records; and for contingent expenses not otherwise provided for, five hundred dollars ;

Department of English and history.

For department of English and history: For purchase of stationery,

textbooks, books of reference, office furniture, maps, map fixtures,

Lectures.

and for repairs to same, for rebinding books and periodicals, and for contingent expenses not otherwise provided for, five hundred dollars ;
For a course of lectures for the more complete instruction of cadets, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

Miscellaneous and incidental expenses.

MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS AND INCIDENTAL EXPENSES.

Stationery, etc.

For commercial periodicals, stationery, office furniture and supplies,

and for binding orders, circulars, and so forth, for the office of the

treasurer, United States Military Academy, two hundred and ten

dollars ;

Lighting, plumbing,

etc.

For gas-coal, oil, candles, lanterns, matches, chimneys , and wicking

for lighting the academy building, chapel, library, cadet barracks,

mess hall, shops, hospital, offices, stables, and riding hall, sidewalks, camp, and wharfs, ten thousand dollars;

For water pipe, plumbing, and repairs, six thousand dollars; For material and labor for cleaning and policing public buildings

(not quarters) , three thousand five hundred dollars;

Library.

For supplies for recitation rooms not otherwise provided for and for renewing and repairing furniture in same, six hundred dollars ;
Increase and expense of library, namely:

For purchase, preservation, care, storage, binding and repair of

books, periodicals, pamphlets, maps, pictures, and manuscripts ;

purchase of furniture, cases, stationery, and fittings; for expenses of

making copies of military manuscripts in other libraries, and for con-

tingent expenses not otherwise provided for; purchases to be made in

open market on the written order of the superintendent, ten thou-

sand dollars;

Contingent, academic board.

For contingent funds, to be expended under the direction of the

academic board : For instruments, books, repairs to apparatus, and

other incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, one thousand

Provico.

dollars ;

Technical supplies. Provided, That all technical and scientific supplies for the depart-

ments of instruction of the Military Academy shall be purchased by

contract or otherwise, as the Secretary of War may deem best;

Musical supplies.

Purchase of instruments for band and repairs to same: For pur-

chase of reeds, pads, strings, and other materials necessary for brass, wood, wind, and string instruments ; for purchase of music stands

and other equipments ; for purchase of music for military band and orchestra and for extra parts ; and for contingent expenses not other-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 207. 1911.

.1025

wise provided for; all to be purchased in open market on order of superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars;

Repairs and improvements to the laundry machinery and apparatus in the cadet laundry, and the purchase of new material, adding machine, tools, and so forth, to be expended without advertising, one thousand eight hundred dollars;
Repair of cooking utensils, chairs, tables, and other furniture in the cadet mess, and the replacement of same, to be expended without advertising, one thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars;
For the purchase of cooking and baking apparatus, new tables, chairs, and so forth, to be immediately available, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ;

Laundry, kitchen,

For the policing of barracks and bath houses, nine thousand three Policing.

hundred and eighty-two dollars and fifty cents;

For

supplying

light

and

plain

furniture

to

cadets'

barracks,

three

Cadet barracks, furniture, etc.

thousand six hundred dollars ;

For maintaining the children's school, the Superintendent of the Military Academy being authorized to employ the necessary teachers, three thousand five hundred and twenty dollars ;
For one chemical fire engine with necessary equipment, seven hundred dollars;

Children's school. Fire engine.

Provided, That section thirty-six hundred and forty-eight, Revised Statutes, shall not apply to subscriptions for foreign, professional, and other newspapers and periodicals, to be paid for from any of the foregoing appropriations.

PPreroivoidsiocals. R.S. ,sec. 3648, p. 718.

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

Buildings and grounds.

For cases, materials, fittings, fixtures, and other appliances and laOborrdantaonryc,eetmcu. seum, repairs for ordnance museum in headquarters building, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

For repairs to ordnance laboratory and other buildings pertaining to the department of ordnance and gunnery, and materials for roads and walks, and for repairs to machinery and tools, one hundred and fifty dollars;

For general repairs to the cadet laundry building, and for emergency incidental expenses about building, to be expended without advertising, four hundred dollars ;
For general incidental repairs and improvements to the cadet store building, including storerooms, office, tailor shops, and shoe-repairing shops, five hundred dollars ;
For screening the doors and windows in cadet mess, one thousand and forty-five dollars;

For materials and labor for repairs, alterations, and additions needed at the soldiers' hospital, as follows:
Purchase ofsuitable incandescent lights, droplights, tubing, mantels,
and so forth ; for paraffin and turpentine for waxing floors; for brushes, paints, glass, putty, and for general repairs; for materials for rebronzing radiators; and for purchase of flowers, fruit trees, shrubs, plants, and so forth, for hospital grounds, one hundred and sixty-five dollars;
For painting interior walls and ceilings of entire hospital, four hundred dollars;

Soldiers' hospital.

For painting exterior woodwork, tin roofs, leaders and gutters of entire hospital, three hundred and fifty dollars ;
For building two cupboards with drawers for pantry, fifty-eight dollars ;
For rebuilding of stone steps in front of the building, forty-five dollars ;
For repairs and additions to quarters of sergeants, first class, Hospital Corps, at soldiers' hospital, as follows:

:

1026

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . CH. 207. 1911. :

Waterworks. Cadet hospital.

For tile drain around building below foundation, and waterproofing of foundation walls, one hundred and forty dollars ;
For fitting building with storm doors and windows throughout (two storm doors and seventeen storm windows required ) , one hundred and twenty-eight dollars ;
For waterworks : For the maintenance and operation of the filter beds, reservoirs, and pipe lines, including the tools, implements, and materials required therefor ; and for policing the grounds and repairing the roads in the vicinity of the reservoirs, filters, and intake dam, two thousand dollars ;
For repairs and necessary alterations and additions to the cadet hospital, as follows :
For materials for rebronzing radiators and piping; material for

waxing and polishing floors ; suitable incandescent lights, droplights, mantels, tubes ; for carpets, furniture, and appliances ; for repairs of damaged articles, and for miscellaneous expenses, one hundred and twenty dollars ;

For purchase of flowers and shrubs for hospital grounds, one hundred dollars ;
For repairing sash and interior blinds throughout building, twentyfive dollars ;

Cadet barracks.

For repairing concrete floor in basement of kitchen extension, one hundred and fifty dollars ;
For replacing broken tiles in wards, and refastening marble door jambs, where required , fifteen dollars ;
For repairing of lift to hospital corps kitchen, repairing of shaft of same, and refinishing floors of landing with terrazo, fifty dollars ;
For stamp metal wainscoting behind all steam radiators located near plastered walls, eighty-two dollars and fifty cents ;
For connecting hot-water pipe leading to operating room, hospital corps lavatories, second and third floors, with hot-water main leading from cadet mess, sixty-one dollars;
For heavy wire partition, with door, separating cadet hospital mess storeroom from passageway, one hundred and fifty dollars;
For alterations and repairs to the quarters of the sergeant, first class, cadet hospital, as follows:
For repairing brickwork of chimneys, forty-five dollars ; For reshingling of roof, three hundred dollars ; Repairs to cadet barracks:

For repairing and renewing plastering, painting, and calcimining,

repairs to woodwork, reflooring, rearranging rooms, increasing sinks,

baths, and other incidental repairs to the building, ten thousand

Cemetery.

dollars ; For maintaining and improving the grounds of the post cemetery,

one thousand five hundred dollars ;

Walls, roads, etc.

For continuing the construction of breast-high wall in dangerous

places, one thousand dollars ;

For broken stone and gravel for roads, and for repairing sidewalks,

Machinery.

roads, paths, and bridges on the reservation, six thousand dollars ; For repair of boilers, engines, dynamos, motors, refrigerating and

Fort Putnam.

other machinery in the cadet mess, and the replacement of same, to be expended without advertising, five hundred dollars;
For completion of work in connection with the restoration of Fort

Putnam, onthe United States Military Academy Reservation at West

Proviso. Condition.

Point, New York, four thousand dollars : Provided, That no part of this sum shall be expended unless said

work shall be fully completed thereby.

Models, relief plans,

etc.

For plaster and other models, relief plans, and maps to illustrate

the facts of geology, photography, geography, hydrography, the

processes and results of the useful arts, of the art of war, fortifications,

artillery, and the like, to be displayed on the walls of the buildings of

the academy, five thousand dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Câs. 207, 208. 1911 .

1027

For carrying on the development of the general plan for improve- Improvinggrounds, ments to roads and grounds on the military reservation of West Point, designed under contract by authority of the Secretary of War, three thousand dollars;

For continuing the work of increasing the efficiency. of the United buEinldliangrsg, eetmc.ent of States Military Academy, West Point, New York, and to provide
for the enlargement of buildings and for other necessary work of improvement in connection therewith, as authorized in Acts of Congress approved June twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and two Vol. 82, p. 419.
Vol. 33, pp. 451, 860. (Public, One hundred and eighty-one), April twenty-eighth, nineteen Vol. 34 , p. 631.
hundred and four (Public, One hundred and ninety-two), March
third, nineteen hundred and five (Public, One hundred and thirtyseven), and June twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and six (Public,
Three hundred and ten), in accordance with the general plan approved
by the Secretary of War January twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred
and four, to remain available until expended, three hundred thousand dollars.

The consent of the United States is hereby given to the city of FPourmtpKienoggshta, tMioonnfto.r Miles City, Montana, to locate, construct, maintain, and operate a-MilesCityallowed on. pumping station with accessory equipment, upon the property of the United States at Fort Keogh, in the State of Montana, upon the approval of the Secretary of War as to the location of the works

and the design and character of the construction, and under such terms, conditions, and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by him regarding the use of the reservation for this purpose and the operation and maintenance of the plant.

Terms, etc.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

CHAP. 208.-An Act Making appropriations for the Diplomatic and Consular Service for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

March 3, 1911. [H. R. 32866.]
[Public, No. 452.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, coDnisupllaormaatppircoparinad and they are hereby, severally appropriated, in full compensation for tions. the Diplomatic and Consular Service for the fiscal year ending June

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, out of any money in the

Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the objects hereinafter

expressed, namely:

SALARIES OF AMBASSADORS AND MINISTERS.

Salaries. ..

Ambassadors extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Austria-Hun-
gary, Brazil, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, and Turkey, at seventeen thousand five hundred dollars each, one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars;

Ambassadors.

Envoys extraordinary and ministers plenipotentiary to the Argen- naErnvyoyasnd emxitnriasotredristine Republic, Belgium, Chile, China, Cuba, the Netherlands and plenipotentiary.
Luxemburg, and Spain, at twelve thousand dollars each, eighty-four thousand dollars;

Envoys extraordinary and ministers plenipotentiary to Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, Greece and Montenegro, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Morocco, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay and Uruguay, Persia, Peru, Portugal, Salvador, Siam, Sweden, Switzerland, and Venezuela, at ten thousand dollars each, two hundred and twenty thousand dollars ;
Envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Roumania, Servia, and Bulgaria, ten thousand dollars ;
Envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to the Dominican Republic, ten thousand dollars ;

- 1028

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911 .

Minister resident and consul general.

Minister resident and consul general to Liberia, five thousand dol-

' lars ;

Agent, etc., Cairo. Agent and consul general at Cairo, six thousand five hundred dol-

lars ; Proviso, Salary restriction. Provided, That no salary herein appropriated shall be paid to any

official receiving any other salary from the United States Government;
Chargés d'affaires. Chargés d'affaires ad interim, fifty thousand dollars;

Total, five hundred and sixty thousand five hundred dollars.

Secretaries of embassies and legations.

SALARIES OF SECRETARIES OF EMBASSIES AND LEGATIONS.

Embassies.

Secretaries of embassy to Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Great Britain,

France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, and Turkey, at three

thousand dollars each, thirty thousand dollars ;

Japanese secretary of embassy to Japan, three thousand six hun-

dred dollars ;

Interpreter to embassy in Turkey.

Interpreter to embassy to Turkey, three thousand dollars ;

Chinese secretary of legation in China.

Chinese secretary of legation to China, three thousand six hundred

dollars ;

Legations.

Secretaries of legation to the Argentine Republic, Belgium, Chile,

China, Cuba, the Netherlands and Luxemburg, and Spain, at two

thousand six hundred and twenty-five dollars each, eighteen thousand

three hundred and seventy-five dollars ;

Secretaries of legation to Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,

the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Liberia,

Morocco, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Sweden,

Switzerland, and Venezuela, at two thousand dollars each, thirtysix thousand dollars ;

Secretary of legation to Salvador and consul general to San Salvador, two thousand dollars ;

Secretary of legation to Siam and consul general at Bangkok, two thousand dollars ;

Secretary of legation to Greece and Montenegro, two thousand dollars ;

Secretary of legation to Paraguay and Uruguay, two thousand dollars ;

Secretary of legation and consul general to Roumania, Servia, and Bulgaria, two thousand dollars ;
Secretary of legation to Persia, who shall be an American student of the language of that country, two thousand dollars ; Second secretaries. Second secretaries of embassy to Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, and Russia, at two thousand dollars each, eighteen thousand dollars;
Second secretaries of legation to China and Cuba, at one thousard eight hundred dollars each, three thousand six hundred dollars;
Second secretary of embassy to Turkey, who shall be an American

Third secretaries.

student of the language of that court and country, two thousand dollars ;
Third secretaries of embassy to Great Britain, France, Mexico, Germany, and Russia, at one thousand two hundred dollars each, six thousand dollars ;

Third secretary of embassy to Japan, who shall be an American student of the Japanese language, one thousand two hundred dollars ;
Third secretary of embassy to Turkey, who shall be an American
student of the Turkish language, one thousand two hundred dollars ; Total, one hundred and thirty-eight thousand five hundred and
seventy-five dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911.

1029

SALARIES OF DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR OFFICERS WHILE RECEIVING INSTRUCTIONS AND MAKING TRANSITS.
To pay the salaries of ambassadors, ministers, consuls, and other trIannssitt prauyc.tion and officers of the United States for the periods actually and necessarily occupied in receiving instructions and in making transits to and from their posts, and while awaiting recognition and authority to act, in 30R9.. 8., sec. 1740, p. pursuance of the provisions of section seventeen hundred and forty of the Revised Statutes, so much as may be necessary.
CLERKS AT EMBASSIES AND LEGATIONS.

For the employment of necessary clerks at the embassies and lega- etcC.lerksat embassies, tions, who, whenever hereafter appointed, shall be citizens of the United States, seventy-five thousand dollars.
SALARIES OF INTERPRETERS TO EMBASSIES AND LEGATIONS.

Assistant Chinese secretary of legation to China, to be appointed from the corps of student interpreters, two thousand dollars ;
Assistant Japanese secretary of embassy to Japan, to be appointed from the corps of student interpreters, two thousand dollars;
Interpreter to legation and consulate general to Persia, one thousand dollars;

Interpreters, etc. ·

Interpreter to legation and consulate general to Bangkok, Siam,

one thousand five hundred dollars ;

For ten student interpreters at the legation to China, who shall be erSst. udent interpret-

citizens of the United States, and whose duty it shall be to study the In China.

Chinese language with a view to supplying interpreters to the legation

and consulates in China, at one thousand dollars each, ten thousand

dollars: Provided, That said student interpreters shall be chosen in

Provisos. Nonpartisan selec-

such manner as will make the selections nonpartisan : And provided tton."

further, That upon receiving such appointment each student inter- Term ofservice.

preter shall sign an agreement to continue in the service as inter-

preter to the legation and consulates in China so long as his said

services may be required within a period of five years;

Tuition.

For the payment of the cost of tuition of student interpreters at the

legation to China, at the rate of one hundred and twenty-five dollars

per annum each, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars;

For six student interpreters at the embassy to Japan, who shall be InJapan.

citizens of the United States, and whose duty it shall be to study

the Japanese language with a view to supplying interpreters to the

embassy and consulates in Japan, at one thousand dollars each, six Provisos. thousand dollars: Provided, That said student interpreters shall be Nonpartisan selec-

chosen in such manner as will make the selections nonpartisan : tion.

And provided further, That upon receiving such appointment each Term ofservice. student interpreter shall sign an agreement to continue in the service

as interpreter to the embassy and consulates in Japan so long as his
said services may be required within a period of five years; For the payment of the cost of tuition of student interpreters at Tuition. ·

the embassy to Japan, at the rate of one hundred and twenty-five dollars per annum each, seven hundred and fifty dollars ;

For ten student interpreters at the embassy to Turkey, who shall In Turkey. be citizens of the United States, and whose duty it shall be to study

the language of Turkey and any other language that may be necessary

to qualify them for service as interpreters to the embassy and consul-

ates in Turkey, at one thousand dollars each, ten thousand dollars:

Provided, That said student interpreters shall be chosen in such

Provisos. Nonpartisan selec-

manner as will make the selections nonpartisan : And provided fur- tion.

ther, That upon receiving such appointment each student interpreter Term of service. shall sign an agreement to continue in the service as interpreter to the

88740°-VOL 36, r 1-11-67

1030

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911 .

embassy and consulates in Turkey so long as his said services may be

Tuition.

required within a period of five years; For the payment of the cost of tuition of student interpreters at

the embassy to Turkey, at the rate of one hundred and twenty-five dollars per annum each, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ;

Restriction on sala- Total, thirty-five thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.

ries.

But no person drawing the salary of interpreter as above provided

shall be allowed any part of the salary appropriated for any secre-

tary of legation or other officer.

prQeutearrst.ers for inter- QUARTERS FOR THE STUDENT INTERPRETERS AT THE EMBASSY TO JAPAN.

In Japan.

For rent of quarters for the student interpreters attached to the embassy at Tokyo, Japan, six hundred dollars.

In Turkey.

QUARTERS FOR THE STUDENT INTERPRETERS AT THE EMBASSY TO TURKEY .
For rent of quarters for the student interpreters attached to the embassy to Turkey, six hundred dollars.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES, FOREIGN MISSIONS.

Contingent expenses, foreign missions.

To enable the President to provide, at the public expense, all such

stationery, blanks, records, and other books, seals, presses, flags, and signs as he shall think necessary for the several embassies and legations in the transaction of their business, and also for rent, postage,

telegrams, furniture, messenger service, compensation of kavasses,

Dispatch agents.

guards, dragomans, and porters, including compensation of interpreters, and the compensation of dispatch agents at London, New York, and San Francisco, and for traveling and miscellaneous expenses

of embassies and legations, and for printing in the Department of

State, and for loss on bills of exchange to and from embassies and legations, three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.

TRANSPORTATION OF DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR OFFICERS IN GOING TO AND RETURNING FROM THEIR POSTS.

Travelingexpenses. To pay the cost of the transportation of diplomatic and consular officers in going to and returning from their posts, or when traveling under the orders of the Secretary of State, at the rate of five cents per mile, but not including any expense incurred in connection with leaves of absence, fifty thousand dollars. >
STEAM LAUNCH FOR LEGATION AT CONSTANTINOPLE.

Steam launch, Turkey.

Hiring of steam launch for use of einbassy at Constantinople, one

thousand eight hundred dollars.

Japan.

GROUND RENT OF EMBASSY AT TOKYO, JAPAN.

Ground rent, cm-

bassy.

Annual ground rent of the embassy at Tokyo, Japan, for the year

ending March fifteenth, nineteen hundred and twelve, two hundred

and fifty dollars.

ANNUAL EXPENSES OF CAPE SPARTEL LIGHT, COAST OF MOROCCO.
Cape Spartel Light. Annual proportion of the expenses of Cape Spartel and Tangier Light on the coast of Morocco, including loss by exchange, three hundred and twenty-five dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911.

1031

BRINGING HOME CRIMINALS.

Actual expenses incurred in bringing home from foreign countries crBirmiinnalgsi. ng home persons charged with crime, seven thousand dollars.
RESCUING SHIPWRECKED AMERICAN SEAMEN.

Expenses which may be incurred in the acknowledgment of the moLniafless. aving testiservices of masters and crews of foreign vessels in rescuing American
seamen or citizens from shipwreck, four thousand five hundred. dollars..
EXPENSES UNDER THE NEUTRALITY ACT.

To meet the necessary expenses attendant upon the execution of the traElxitpyeacnts. es, neuneutrality Act, to be expended under the direction of the President, R. 8. , sec. 291, p. 49.
pursuant to the requirement of section two hundred and ninety-one of the Revised Statutes, eight thousand dollars.

EMERGENCIES ARISING IN THE DIPLOMATIO, AND CONSULAR SERVICE.

To enable the President to meet unforeseen emergencies arising in
the diplomatic and consular service, and to extend the commercial and other interests of the United States, to be expended pursuant to the requirement of section two hundred and ninety-one of the Revised Statutes, ninety thousand - dollars.

Unforeseen emer-. ,sec. 291, p. 49.

ALLOWANCE TO WIDOWS OR HEIRS OF D· IPLOMATIO OFFICERS WHO DIE ABROAD.

Payment, under the provisions of section seventeen hundred and ofAlolfofwiacnecrestdoyhienirgs forty-nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to the abroad . widows or heirs at law of diplomatic or consular officers of the..
United States dying in foreign countries in the discharge of their duties, five thousand dollars.

TRANSPORTING REMAINS OF DIPLOMATIO OFFICERS, CONSULS, AND CONSULAR ASSISTANTS TO THEIR HOMES FOR INTERMENT.

For defraying the expenses of transporting the remains of diplo maBirnisngoifnogffihcoerms.e rematic and consular officers of the United States, including consular
assistants, who have died or may die abroad or in transit, while in the discharge of their official duties, to their former homes in this country for interment, and.for the ordinary and necessary expenses of such interment, at their post or at home, five thousand dollars.

INTERNATIONAL BUREAU OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

Contribution

to

the

maintenance

of

the

International

Bureau

of reIanuteorfnaWteiiognhatls

Buand

Weights and Measures in conformity with the terms of the convention MeVaoslu.r2e0s,.p. 714. of May twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and seventy-five, the same,

or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be paid, under the direc-

tion of the Secretary of State, to said bureau on its certificate of

apportionment, two thousand eight hundred and ninety-five dollars.

INTERNATIONAL BUREAU FOR PUBLICATION OF CUSTOMS TARIFFS.

To meet the share of the United States in the annual expense for toImnsteTranriaftfioBnuarleauC.u´s the year ending March thirty-first, nineteen hundred and twelve, of Vol. 26, p. 1518.
sustaining the international bureau at Brussels for the translation and publication of customs tariffs, one thousand five hundred dollars;

1032

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911.

this appropriation to be available on April first, nineteen hundred and eleven, pursuant to convention proclaimed December seventeenth, eighteen hundred and ninety.

INTERNATIONAL (WATER) BOUNDARY ' COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO.

Mexican Water To enable the commission to continue its work under the treaties

Boundary Commis-

sion.

of eighteen hundred and eighty-four and eighteen hundred and

26V, opl. .125142, .p. 1011 ; Vol. eighty-nine, and nineteen hundred and five, fifty thousand dollars.

INTERNATIONAL BUREAU AT BRUSSELS FOR REPRESSION OF THE AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE.

Bureau for Repres To meet the share of the United States in the expenses of the special

HTroamde. African Slave bureau created by article eighty-two of the general act concluded at

Vol. 27, p. 917.

Brussels July second, eighteen hundred and ninety, for the repression

of the African slave trade and the restriction of the importation into

and sale in a certain defined zone of the African Continent of firearms,

ammunition, and spirituous liquors, for the calendar year nineteen

hundred and twelve, one hundred dollars.

INTERNATIONAL GEODETIC ASSOCIATION FOR THE MEASUREMENT OF THE EARTH.

International Geodetic Association.

To enable the Government of the United States to pay, through the

American embassy at Berlin, its quota as an adhering member of the

International Geodetic Association for the Measurement of the

Earth, one thousand five hundred dollars.

REPAIRS TO LEGATION AND CONSULAR, PREMISES.

Repairs to legations and consulates.

To enable the Secretary of State to keep in repair the legation and

consular premises owned by the Government of the United States and

occupied by its agents, ten thousand dollars.

PAN AMERICAN UNION.

Pan American Union.

Pan American Union, seventy-five thousand dollars : Provided, That

Provisos. Use of moneys

re-

aponrytmoofntehyesurneicoenivsehdalflrboemptahiedoitnhteortAhmeeTrriecaasnurRyepausbaliccrsedfiotr, tihneasdduip--

ceived .

tion to the appropriation, and may be drawn therefrom upon requi-

sitions of the Secretary of State for the purpose of meeting the exMonthly Bulletin. penses of the union : And provided further, That the Public Printer

be, and he is hereby, authorized to print an edition of the Monthly

Bulletin, not to exceed five thousand copies per month, for distribu-

tion by the union every month .

INTERNATIONAL BUREAU OF THE PERMANENT COURT OF ARBITRATION.

International Bureau of Permanent

To meet the share of the United States in the expenses for the cal-

Court of Arbitration. endar year nineteen hundred and ten of the International Bureau of

the Permanent Court of Arbitration, created under article twenty-two

Vol . 32, p. 1793. of the convention concluded at The Hague, July twenty-ninth , eight-

een hundred and ninety-nine, for the pacific settlement of interna-

tional disputes, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars.

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURE.

International Insti- For the payment of the quota of the United States for the support tute of Agriculture.
of the International Institute of Agriculture for the calendar year
nineteen hundred and twelve, four thousand eight hundred dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911 .

1033

For salary of one member of the permanent committee of the Inter· national Institute of Agriculture, for the calendar year nineteen hun-
dred and twelve, three thousand six hundred dollars. Total, eight thousand four hundred dollars.
INTERNATIONAL SANITARY BUREAU.
For the annual share of the United States for the maintenance of taIrnytBeurrnaetaiuo.nal Sanithe International Sanitary Bureau for the calendar year nineteen hundred and twelve, two thousand eight hundred and thirty dollars and seventy-nine cents.
BOUNDARY LIN, ALASKA AND CANADA.

To enable the Secretary of State to mark the boundary and make anBdouCnadnarday,. Alaska the surveys incidental thereto, between the Territory of Alaska and. the Dominion of Canada, in conformity with the award ofthe Alaskan Vol. 2, p. 1961. Boundary Tribunal and existing treaties, including employment at
the seat of government of such surveyors, computers, and draftsmen as are necessary to reduce field notes, two hundred thousand dollars, to be immediately available, together with the unexpended balance of the previous appropriation for this object.

SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES COURT FOR CHINA.

United States court for China.

Judge of the United States court for China, eight thousand dollars; Salaries. district attorney of the United States court for China, four thousand dollars ; marshal of the United States court for China, three thousand dollars ; clerk of the United States court for China, three thousand
dollars; stenographer of the United States court for China, one thousand eight hundred dollars; for court expenses, eight thousand dollars; in all, twenty-seven thousand eight hundred dollars.
For the actual expenses ofthe judge of said court, not to exceed ten atJtuodrngeey .and district dollars per day, and of the district attorney, not to exceed five dollars atSSehssainognhsaoit.her than per day, when sessions of said court are held at other cities than Shanghai, so much as may be necessary.
For rent of premises for the use of the United States court for China Rent. at Shanghai, two thousand four hundred dollars.
Total, thirty thousand two hundred dollars.

BOUNDARY LINE UNITED STATES AND CANADA
Boundary, United For the more effective demarcation and mapping, pursuant to the states and Canada. treaty of April eleventh, nineteen hundred and eight, between the Vol. 35, p. 2003. United States and Great Britain, of the land and water boundary line between the United States and the Dominion of Canada, as established under existing treaties, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, including employment at the seat of government of such surveyors, computers, and draftsmen as are necessary to reduce field notes, ninety-five thousand dollars.
FISHERIES CONVENTION, UNITED STATES AND CANADA.
Fishery CommisFor the payment of the compensation of a commission on the part sion, Canadian. of the United States under the convention between the United States Vol. 35, p. 2000. and Great Britain concerning the fisheries in waters contiguous to the United States and the Dominion of Canada, signed at Washington on April eleventh, nineteen hundred and eight, and of the share of the United States of the expenses that may be incurred in putting into operation and carrying out the convention during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, ten thousand dollars.

1034

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 208. 1911 .

INTERNATIONAL OFFICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH.

International Office of Public Health.

For the payment of the quota of the United States for the calendar

Vol. 35, p. 2061.

year nineteen hundred and eleven toward the support of the International Office of Public Health , created by the international arrange-

ment signed at Rome December ninth, nineteen hundred and seven,

Vol. 35, p. 1834.

in pursuance of article one hundred and eighty-one of the International Sanitary Convention signed at Paris on December third, nineteen

hundred and three, three thousand and fifteen dollars and sixty-two cents.

INVESTIGATION OF CLAIMS OF AMERICAN CITIZENS FOR LOSSES IN SAMOA IN EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND NINETY-NINE.

moIanvnesctliagiamtsi.ng Ante, p. 592.

Sa- For carrying into effect the Act of Congress approved June twentythird, nineteen hundred and ten, for the investigation of claims of American citizens for losses growing out of the joint naval operations of the United States and Great Britain in and about the town of Apia, in the Samoan Islands, in the months of March, April, and May, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, the King of Sweden by an international award having found the United States and Great Britain to be responsible for such losses , seven hundred and fifty dollars.

ARBITRATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL TITLE TO THE CHAMIZAL TRACT.

Arbitration Chamizal tract.
Post, p. 2481.

of For the expenses of the arbitration of the international title to the
Chamizal tract, including office rent in the District of Columbia and the compensation of arbitrators, umpires, agents, counsel, clerical and other assistants, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, and to be immediately available and to continue available until expended, fifty thousand dollars.

NINTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF THE RED CROSS.

International Red Cross Conference.

To meet the expenses of the Ninth International Conference of the

Red Cross, to be held at Washington in nineteen hundred and twelve,

twenty thousand dollars.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF HYGIENE AND DEMOGRAPHY.

International Con- For the continuance of the preliminary work necessary in preparing gress of Hygiene and

Demography.

for the meeting in the United States, in the year nineteen hundred

Vol. 34, p. 1422. and twelve, of the Fifteenth International Congress of Hygiene and

Demography, in pursuance of the invitation extended by the Presi-

dent of the United States in virtue of the joint resolution of the

Congress thereof approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and seven, ten thousand dollars.

International Congress on Social Insur-

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SOCIAL INSURANCE.

ance.

Invited to meet in United States.

The President of the United States is hereby authorized to extend

to the International Congress on Social Insurance an invitation to

hold its next triennial congress in the United States.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON ALCOHOLISM AT THE HAGUE, HOLLAND.

International Congress on Alcoholism.

For expenses of delegates to be designated by the President to

the Thirteenth International Congress on Alcoholism at The Hague,

Holland, September, nineteen hundred and eleven, four thousand

five hundred dollars, including secretarial and stenographic work

and transcription of reports.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. · 1911 .

1035

' SALARIES, CONSULAR. SERVICE.

Salaries.

Consular gervice. For salaries of consuls general and consuls, as provided in the Act Vol. 35, p. 101; Vol. approved May eleventh, nineteen hundred and eight, entitled " An 34, p. 99.
Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to provide for the reorganization of the consular service. of the United States,' approved April
fifth, nineteen hundred and six," and amendments thereto, as follows : Consuls general, three hundred and three thousand dollars; consuls, seven hundred and thirty-four thousand dollars ; in all, one million and thirty-seven thousand dollars.
For salaries of five consular inspectors, at five thousand dollars each, Consular inspectors. twenty-five thousand dollars.

Total, one million and sixty-two thousand dollars.

EXPENSES OF CONSULAR INSPECTORS.

For the actual and necessary traveling and subsistence expenses peTnrsaevse. ling, etc., exof consular inspectors while traveling and inspecting under instructions from the Secretary of State, fifteen thousand dollars.
SALARIES OF CONSULAR ASSISTANTS.
For thirty consular assistants as provided for by law, thirty-six Consular assistants. thousand six hundred dollars.
· ALLOWANCE FOR CLERK HIRE AT UNITED STATES CONSULATES.

Allowance for clerk hire at consulates, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
SALARIES OF INTERPRETERS TO CONSULATES IN CHINA, CHOSEN, AND JAPAN.
Interpretersat conInterpreters to be employed at consulates in China, Chosen, and sulates Japan, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, forty thousand dollars. For interpreter at Vladivostok, Siberia, one thousand two hundred dollars. Interpreter at Tangier, one thousand two hundred dollars. Interpreter at Seoul, five hundred dollars. Total, forty-two thousand nine hundred dollars .

EXPENSES OF INTERPRETERS, GUARDS, AND SO FORTH, IN TURKISH DOMINIONS, AND SO FORTH. `
Interpreters and guards at the consulates in the Turkish dominions, Interpreters.guards, Persia, and at Zanzibar, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, nineteen thousand dollars.
SALARIES OF MARSHALS FOR CONSULAR COURTS.

Marshals for the consular courts in China, Chosen, and Turkey, Marshals. eleven thousand dollars.

EXPENSES OF PRISONS FOR AMERICAN CONVICTS.

Consular prisons.

Actual expense of renting a prison at Shanghai for American convicts in China, one thousand two hundred dollars ; for contingent expenses, one thousand two hundred dollars ; for the wages of a keeper of such prison, one thousand two hundred dollars ; and for

Shanghai.

1036

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 208. 1911.

Keeping prisoners. Proviso. Limit of cost.
Rent, etc., Turkey. Keeper, Chosen.

the wages of an assistant keeper of such prison, eight hundred dollars ; in all, four thousand four hundred dollars.
Paying for the keeping and feeding of prisoners in China, Chosen, Siam, and Turkey, nine thousand dollars : Provided, That no more than fifty cents per day for the keeping and feeding of each prisoner while actually confined shall be allowed or paid for any such keeping
and feeding. This is not to be understood as covering cost of medical attendance and medicines when required by such prisoners.
Rent of prison for American convicts in Turkey, and for wages of keepers of the same, one thousand dollars .
Wages of prison keeper in Chosen, six hundred dollars. Total, fifteen thousand dollars .

RELIEF AND PROTECTION OF AMERICAN SEAMEN.

Relief of American

seamen:

Relief and protection of American seamen in foreign countries,

and shipwrecked American seamen in the Territory of Alaska, in the

Hawaiian Islands, Porto Rico , the Panama Canal Zone, and the

Philippine Islands, thirty thousand dollars.

Foreign hospitals.

FOREIGN HOSPITAL AT CAPE TOWN.

Cape Town.

Annual contribution toward the support of the Somerset Hospital (a foreign hospital) , at Cape Town, fifty dollars, to be paid by the Secretary of State upon the assurance that suffering seamen and citizens of the United States will be admitted to the privileges of said hospital.
FOREIGN HOSPITALS AT PANAMA.

Panama.

Annual contributions toward the support of the foreign hospitals at
Panama, five hundred dollars, to be paid by the Secretary of State upon the assurance that suffering seamen and citizens of the United States will be admitted to the privileges of said hospitals.

SEAMEN'S INSTITUTE AT KOBE.

Seamen's Institute,

Kobe.

Contributions toward the support of the Seamen's Institute at

Kobe, to be paid by the Secretary of State upon the assurance that

relief will be afforded by the said institute to indigent American

seamen, twenty-five dollars.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES, UNITED STATES CONSULATES.

Contingent expenses, consulates.

Expenses of providing all such stationery, blanks, record and other

books, seals, presses, flags, signs, rent (allowance for rent not to exceed

in any case thirty per centum of the officer's salary ), postage, furniture including typewriters and exchange of same statistics, newspapers,

freight foreign and domestic), telegrams, advertising, messenger service, traveling expenses of consular officers and consular assistants,

compensation of Chinese writers, loss by exchange, and such other

miscellaneous expenses as the President may think necessary for the several consulates and consular agencies in the transaction of their

business, four hundred and seventy-one thousand six hundred dollars .

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1037.

CHAP. 209.-An Act Making appropriation for the support of the Army for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve..

March 8, 1911. [H. B. 81237.]
[Public, No. 453.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, tiAonrs.my, appropriaand they are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury

not otherwise appropriated, for the support of the Army for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve :

CONTINGENCIES OF THE ARMY: For all contingent expenses of the ArComnyt.ingenciesof the
Army not otherwise provided for, and embracing all branches of the military service, including the office of the Chief of Staff; to be ex-

pended under the immediate orders of the Secretary of War, forty thousand dollars.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF.

Office of Chief of Staff.

ARMY WAR COLLEGE: For expenses of the Army War College, being ArmyWar College. for the purchase of the necessary stationery, office, toilet, and desk
furniture, textbooks, books of reference, scientific and professional papers and periodicals, printing and binding, maps, políce utensils, employment of temporary, technical, or special services, and for all other absolutely necessary expenses, including twenty-five dollars per month additional to regular compensation to chief clerk of division
for superintendence of the War College Building, ten thousand dollars: Provided, That hereafter the Chief of the Division of Militia Affairs, Prhoevitsoo.f Militia Af-
Office of the Chief of Staff, shall be detailed from the general officers fairs Division to bea. of the line of the Army, and while so serving shall be an additional general of the line.
member of the. General Staff Corps. CONTINGENCIES , MILITARY-INFORMATION SECTION, GENERAL STAFF Contingentexpenses.
CORPS : For contingent expenses of the military-information section, General Staff Corps, including the purchase of law books, professional
· books of reference, professional and technical periodicals and newspapers, and of the military attachés at the United States embassies
and legations abroad; and of the branch office of the military-information section at Manila, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War, ten thousand dollars: Provided, That section thirty- PPreorivoidsiocals. six hundred and forty-eight, Revised Statutes, shall not apply to R.S., sec. 3648, p. 718.
subscriptions for foreign and professional newspapers and periodicals to be paid for from this appropriation.
UNITED STATES SERVICE SCHOOLS : To provide means for the theo- SFeorrvticLeesacvheonolwso.rth, retical and practical instruction at the Staff College (including the Kans Army School of the Line, Army Field Engineer School, and the Army Signal School) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and the Mounted Serv-
ice School at Fort Riley, Kansas, by the purchase of textbooks, books Fort Riley, Kans. of reference, scientific and professional papers, the purchase of modern instruments and material for theoretical and practical instruction and for all other absolutely necessary expenses, to be allotted in such proportions as may, in the opinion of the Secretary of War, be for the best interests of the military service, twenty-five thousand dollars.

THE ADJUTANT GENERAL'S -DEPARTMENT.

Adjutant General's Department.

CONTINGENCIES,

HEADQUARTERS

OF

MILITARY

DEPARTMENTS :

Contingencies For headquarters.

at

contingent expenses at the headquarters of the several military, divi-

sions and departments, including the staff corps serving thereat, being

for the purchase of the necessary articles of office, toilet, and desk

furniture, binding, maps, technical books of reference, professional

and technical newspapers and periodicals, and police utensils, to be

allotted by the Secretary of War, and to be expended in the discretion

of the several military division and department commanders, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

1038

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

UnderChiefofCoast Artillery.

UNDER THE CHIEF OF ARTILLERY.

Coast artillery COAST ARTILLERY SCHOOL, FORT MONROE, VIRGINIA : For inci-
school, Fort Monroe, dental expenses of the school, including chemicals, stationery, hard-

ware; cost of special instruction of officers detailed as instructors ;

extra-duty pay to soldiers necessarily employed for periods not less

than ten days as artificers on work in addition to and not strictly in line with their military duties, such as carpenters, blacksmiths,

draftsmen, printers, lithographers, photographers, engine drivers,

telegraph operators, teamsters, wheelwrights, masons, machinists,

painters, overseers, laborers ; office furniture and fixtures, machinery,

and unforeseen expenses, ten thousand dollars.

Special apparatus, etc.

For purchase of engines, generators, motors, machines, measuring

instruments, special apparatus and materials for the division of the

enlisted specialists, seven thousand dollars.

For purchase of special apparatus and materials and for experimen-
tal purposes for the department of artillery, three thousand dollars. Submarine mines. For purchase of generating, measuring, and mine apparatus, and

materials for use in instruction of artillery troops in their special

Books.

duties in connection with the loading and planting of submarine mines, five thousand five hundred dollars.
For purchase and binding of professional books of recent date treat-

Periodicals. R. S., 3648, p. 718.

ing of military and scientific subjects for library and for use of school, two thousand five hundred dollars.
Provided, That section thirty-six hundred and forty-eight, Revised Statutes, shall not apply to subscriptions for foreign andprofessional

newspapers and periodicals . to be paid for from this appropriation.

Signal Service.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF SIGNAL OFFICER.

Expenses.

SIGNAL SERVICE OF THE ARMY: For expenses of the Signal Ser-

vice of the Army, as follows : Purchase, equipment, and repair of

field electric telegraphs, signal equipments and stores, binocular

glasses, telescopes, heliostats, and other necessary instruments, includ-

ing necessary meteorological instruments for use on target ranges ;

war balloons and aeroplanes, including their maintenance and repair;

telephone apparatus (exclusive of exchange service) and maintenance of the same; electrical installations and maintenance at military

posts ; fire control and direction apparatus and material for field

artillery; maintenance and repair of military telegraph lines and

cables, including salaries of civilian employees, supplies, and general

repairs, and other expenses connected with the duty of collecting and

transmitting information for the Army by telegraph or otherwise,.

Proviso.

three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars, of which sum twenty

Limit for aerial five thousand dollars shall be immediately available ; Provided, how

machines.

ever, That not more than one hundred and twenty-five thousand dol-

lars of said amount shall be used for the purchase, maintenance,

operation, and repair of aeroplanes and other aerial machines.

Washington-Alaska cable, etc.

WASHINGTON-ALASKA MILITARY CABLE AND TELEGRAPH SYSTEM:

Extensions, etc. For defraying the cost of such extensions and betterments of the

Washington-Alaska military cable and telegraph system as may be

approved by the Secretary of War, to be available until the close of

the fiscal year nineteen hundred and thirteen from the receipts of the Washington-Alaska military cable and telegraph system that have been covered into the Treasury of the United States, the extent of such extensions and the cost thereof to be reported to Congress by the

Secretary of War, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1039

PAY OF OFFICERS OF THE LINE.

Pay.

Line officers.

For pay of officers of the line, seven million two hundred and eleven

thousand one hundred dollars : Provided, That the accounting officers

Provisos. No stoppages for

of the Treasury, in the settlement of claims, shall not stop against the payments forexercise

amount found due the payments for exercise of higher command of higher command.

which were made between April twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and

ninety-eight, and March eighteenth, nineteen hundred and seven, in

accordance with regulations and decisions then existing: Provided reDoipseanleldo,weatncc.es to be further, That where disallowances or stoppages on account of pay received for exercise of higher command between said dates have been

made in the settlement of claims, the Auditor for the War Department is hereby authorized and directed to reopen said settlements and Restriction on to credit the claimants the full amount due on their claims: And claims.

provided further, That nothing herein contained shall be construed as

authorizing the accounting officers of the Treasury to allow any claim

for increase of pay for the exercise of a higher command between the

dates of April twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and

March eighteenth, nineteen hundred and seven, which may now be pending or hereafter presented, except in accordance with the decision

of March eighteenth, nineteen hundred and seven, of the United States Supreme Court in the case of Donn C. Mitchell.

For pay of officers for length of service, to be paid with their current Longevity.

monthly pay, one million five hundred and ninety-nine thousand five hundred and seventy dollars.

PAY OF ENLISTED MEN.

Enlisted men.

For pay of enlisted men of all grades, including recruits, fifteen million six hundred and nineteen thousand six hundred and sixtytwo dollars.
For additional pay for length of service, one million four hundred and ninety thousand dollars.

Longevity.

CORPS OF ENGINEERS.

Engineer battalion.

For pay of enlisted men, four hundred and seventy-six thousand nine hundred and seventy-six dollars.
Additional pay for length of service, sixty-five thousand dollars.

ORDNANCE DEPARTMENT.

Ordnance Corps.

For pay of enlisted men, two hundred and sixteen thousand and
thirty-six dollars. Additional pay for length of service, one hundred and one thousand
five hundred dollars.

QUARTERMASTER'S DEPARTMENT.

Quartermaster sergeants.

For pay of two hundred post quartermaster sergeants, at fortyfive dollars per month each, one hundred and eight thousand dollars,
Additional pay for length of service, thirty-eight thousand dollars.

SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT.

Commissary ser geants.

For pay of two hundred and seven post commissary sergeants, at forty-five dollars per month each, one hundred and eleven thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.
Additional pay for length of service, forty-five thousand dollars.

1040 Signal Corps.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911. SIGNAL CORPS.

Hospital Corps.

For pay of forty-two master signal electricians, at nine hundred dollars each, thirty-seven thousand eight hundred dollars.
For pay of one hundred and thirty-two first-class sergeants, at five hundred and forty dollars each, seventy-one thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.
For pay of one hundred and forty-four sergeants, at thirty-six dollars per month each, sixty-two thousand two hundred and eight dollars.
For pay of twenty-four cooks, at thirty dollars per month each, eight thousand six hundred and forty dollars.
For pay of one hundred and fifty-six corporals, at twenty-four dollars per month each, forty-four thousand nine hundred and twentyeight dollars.
For pay of five hundred and fifty-two first-class privates, at eighteen dollars per month each, one hundred and nineteen thousand two hundred and thirty-two dollars.
For pay of one hundred and sixty-eight privates, at fifteen dollars per month each, thirty thousand two hundred and forty dollars.
Additional pay to twelve sergeants, serving as mess sergeants, at six dollars per month each, eight hundred and sixty-four dollars.
Additional pay for length of service, fifty-six thousand dollars.
HOSPITAL CORPS.

For pay of enlisted men, nine hundred and forty thousand and eighty dollars.

Additional pay for length of service, one hundred and sixty-eight thousand dollars.

Service school detachment.

SERVICE SCHOOL DETACHMENT.

For pay of five sergeants, first class, Hospital Corps, at fifty dollars each per month, three thousand dollars.
For pay of six privates, first class, Hospital Corps, at eighteen dollars each per month, one thousand, two hundred and ninety-six dollars.

etcC.lerks, messengers, PAY TO CLERKS, MESSENGERS, AND LABORERS AT HEADQUARTERS OF DIVISIONS, AND DEPARTMENTS, AND POSTS COMMANDED BY GENERAL
OFFICERS, AND OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF.

One chief clerk, at the office of the Chief of Staff, two thousand dollars per annum.
Fifteen clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each per annum .
Sixteen clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each per annum .
Forty clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each per annum: Provided, That one of said clerks shall be employed as stenographer for the military information division in the Philippine Islands.
Seventy-four clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each per annum .
Eighty-five clerks, at one thousand dollars each per annum. Two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each per annum. One clerk, at seven hundred and twenty dollars per annum. One captain of the watch, at nine hundred dollars per annum. Three watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each per annum .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1041

One gardener, at seven hundred and twenty dollars per annum,
One packer, at eight hundred and forty dollars per annum. Two messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each per annum. Seventy-four messengers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars
each per annum. Two messengers, at six hundred dollars each per annum.
One laborer, at six hundred and sixty dollars per annum. Two laborers, at six hundred dollars each per annum. One laborer, at four hundred and eighty dollars per annum. Five charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each per annum.
In all, three hundred and fifty-one thousand two hundred and forty dollars.
And said clerks, messengers, and laborers shall be employed and Assignment. assigned by the Secretary of War to the offices and positions in
Proviso. which they are to serve: Provided, That no clerk, messenger, or Duty in War Delaborer at headquarters of divisions, departments, posts commanded partment forbidden. by general officers, or office of the Chief of Staff shall be assigned to duty with any bureau in the War Department.

FOR PAY OF OFFICERS OF THE STAFF CORPS AND STAFF DEPARTMENTS. Staff officers.

·

ADJUTANT

GENERAL'S

DEPARTMENT :

For

pay

of

officers

in the Adjutant General's Department.

Adjutant General's Department, eighty-eight thousand five hundred

dollars.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, twenty-two thousand dollars.
INSPECTOR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT: For pay of officers in the DeIpnasrptemcteonrt.General's Inspector General's Department, fifty-nine thousand dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, sixteen thousand dollars.
THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS: For pay of officers in the Corps of Engineer Corps. Engineers, four hundred and sixty thousand three hundred dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid
with their current monthly pay, one hundred and fourteen thousand two hundred and sixty dollars.
Ordnance DepartORDNANCE DEPARTMENT: For , pay of officers in the Ordnance ment.
Department, two hundred and twenty-eight thousand five hundred dollars.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, fifty-five thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars.
QUARTERMASTER'S DEPARTMENT: For par of officers in the Quarter- Quartermaster'sDemaster's Department, two hundred and sixty-five thousand five hundred dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, seventy-five thousand four hundred and forty dollars.
SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT: For pay of officers in the Subsistence meSnubts. istence DepartDepartment, one hundred and forty-eight thousand eight hundred dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, thirty-four thousand four hundred and eighty dollars.
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT: For pay of officers in the Medical Depart- meMnetd. ical Depart ment, one million four hundred and sixty-four thousand six hundred dollars: Provided, That hereafter the Secretary of War is hereby PDreotvaiislot.o American authorized to detail an officer of the Medical Corps to take charge of Red Cross. the first-aid department of the American Red Cross.

:4

1042

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 209. 1911.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid

with their current monthly pay, one hundred and sixty-five thousand

and sixty dollars.

Pay Department.

PAY. DEPARTMENT: For pay of officers in the Pay Department,

one hundred and fifty-two thousand dollars.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid

with their current monthly pay, thirty-eight thousand four hundred

and sixty dollars.

Judge Advocate

General's Depart- JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT: For pay of officers

ment.

in the Judge Advocate General's Department, forty-six thousand

five hundred dollars.

Signal Corps.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, eight thousand five hundred dollars.
SIGNAL CORPS : For pay of the officers of the Signal Corps, one hundred and fourteen thousand two hundred dollars.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid

with their current monthly pay, twenty-nine thousand three hundred

dollars.

Insular Affairs Bu-

reau.

BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS : For pay of officers of the Bureau of

Insular Affairs, thirteen thousand dollars.

For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, two thousand dollars.

Retired officers.

RETIRED OFFICERS.

Pay. Longevity. On active service. Longevity.

For pay of officers on the retired list and for officers who may be placed thereon during the current year, two million nine hundred and twelve thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
For increased pay to retired officers assigned to active duty, fifty thousand four hundred dollars.
For additional pay to such officers for length of service, to be paid with their current monthly pay, twenty thousand dollars.

Retired enlisted men.

RETIRED ENLISTED MEN.

Pay. Miscellaneous.

For pay of the enlisted men of the Army on the retired list, tw million one hundred and forty-seven thousand six hundred and seventy dollars.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Hospital matrons. For pay of seventy-five hospital matrons, nine thousand dollars. Female Nurse Corps. For pay of one Superintendent Nurse Corps, one thousand eight
hundred dollars.

For one hundred and twenty-five nurses (female) , eighty-eight

Veterinarians.

thousand seven hundred and forty dollars.

Proviso.

For pay of forty-two veterinarians, at one thousand seven hundred

Retire as second dollars each, seventy-one thousand four hundred dollars : Porvided,

Meutenants. Vol. 31, p. 759.

That hereafter so much of section twenty, of the Act approved

February second, nineteen hundred and one, as provides that veter-

inarians shall receive the pay and allowances of second lieutenants,

mounted, shall be interpreted to authorize their retirement under

Longevity.

the laws governing the retirement of second lieutenants. For additional pay to such veterinarians, for length of service, to

Dental surgeons. Post, p. 1054.

be paid with their current monthly pay, eleven thousand dollars. For pay of thirty-one dental surgeons, fifty-seven thousand nine

hundred and sixty dollars. Contract surgeons. For contract surgeons, thirty-six thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

1043

For pay of ninety paymasters' clerks, one hundred and forty-three
thousand five hundred and fifty dollars. For pay of paymasters' messengers, nineteen thousand dollars. For traveling expenses of paymasters' clerks and expert accountant
of the Inspector General's Department, nineteen thousand five hundred dollars.
For expenses of courts-martial, courts of inquiry, military commissions, and compensation of reporters and witnesses attending the same, thirty-five thousand dollars.

PPoasytm,aps.t1e0r1s4'. clerks. Messengers. Traveling expenses.
Courts-martial, etc.

For additional pay to officer in charge of public buildings and anOdffgirceoru,ndbsu,iDl.dCi.ngs

grounds at Washington, District of Columbia, one thousand dollars.

For commutation

of

quarters

to

commissioned

officers

and

veteri-

Commutation quarters, officers.

of

narians on duty without troops at stations where there are no public

quarters, four hundred and seventy thousand dollars.

For travel allowance to enlisted men on discharge, nine hundred meTnr.avel, enlisted and fifty thousand dollars.

For clothing not drawn due to enlisted men on discharge, eight Clothing not drawn. hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

For interest on soldiers' deposits, one hundred thousand dollars, Interestondeposits.

and so much as may be necessary to pay back such deposits.

For pay of translator and librarian of the military information Translator. division, General Staff Corps, one thousand eight hundred dollars.

For pay of expert accountant for the Inspector General's Depart- Expertaccountant.

ment, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For

extra

pay

to

enlisted

men

employed

on

extra

duty

for

periods

Extra pay, sea-coast fortifications.

of not less than ten days in the offices of district artillery engineers,

and district ordnance officers, and as switchboard operators, at sea-

coast fortifications, ten thousand nine hundred and fifty-two dollars

and fifty-five cents.

Switchboard oper-

For extra pay to enlisted men employed on extra duty as switch- atorsat interiorposts.

board operators at each interior post of the Army, eleven thousand

two hundred and forty-two dollars..

Alaska cable, etc.,

For extra pay to enlisted men of the line of the Army and to enlisted service.

men of the Signal Corps employed in the Territory of Alaska on the

Alaskan cable and telegraph system, fer periods of not less than ten

days, at the rate of thirty-five cents per day, thirty-six thousand dollars.

For mileage to officers and contract surgeons when authorized by etcM.ileage to officers,

law, six hundred thousand dollars.

For

additional

ten

per

centum increase

on pay

of officers

on

foreign

Additional pay, foreign service.

service, two hundred and sixty-six thousand dollars.

Officers.

For additional twenty per centum increase to enlisted men on Enlisted men,

foreign service, nine hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

For pay of one computer for artillery board, two thousand five Computer. hundred dollars.

For payment of exchange by special disbursing agents of the Pay Loss byexchange. Department serving in foreign countries, and when specially authorized by the Secretary of War special disbursing agents of the Pay

Department serving in Alaska, six hundred dollars.
For subsistence, mileage, and commutation of quarters to officers tiAatattesnedravnicceesocfhomoillsl. of the national guard attending service and garrison schools , twenty thousand dollars.
For three months' additional pay to enlisted men reenlisting FAidrdsittrieoennallipstamye.nts.

within the period of three months from date of discharge from first enlistment, one hundred thousand dollars.

For six months' additional pay to beneficiaries of officers and Deaths from

enlisted men who die while in active service from wounds or disease

not the result of their own misconduct, one hundred thousand dollars.

For additional pay to officers below the grade of major required to

Officers mounts.

furnishing

be mounted and who furnish their own mounts, one hundred and

sixty thousand dollars.

1044

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SES3. III. CH. 209. 1911.

Jennie Carroll. Vol. 35, p. 1325.

For amount required to make monthly payment to Jennie Carroll, widow of James Carroll, late major and surgeon, United States Army,

as per Act of Congress approved May twenty-third, nineteen hundred

Mabel H. Lazear. Vol. 35, p. 1325.

and eight, one thousand five hundred dollars. For amount required to make monthly payment to Mabel H.
Lazear, widow of Jesse W. Lazear, late acting assistant surgeon,

United States Army, as per Act of Congress approved May twenty-

third, nineteen hundred and eight, one thousand five hundred dollars.

Porto Rico Regiment ofInfantry.

For Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry, composed of two battalions

Officers.

of four companies each: Pay of officers, sixty-five thousand seven hundred dollars.

Longevity.

For additional pay for length of service, .eleven thousand nine

Enlisted men.

hundred dollars.. Pay of enlisted men, one hundred and thirty thousand two hundred

and twenty-four dollars.

Longevity.

Additional pay for length of service, thirty-five thousand dollars.

Philippine Scouts.

PHILIPPINE SCOUTS.

Officers.

For pay of officers : For fifty-two captains, one hundred and twenty- four thousand eight hundred dollars.

For pay of sixty-four first lieutenants, one hundred and twentyeight thousand dollars.

For pay of sixty-four second lieutenants, one hundred and eight thousand eight hundred dollars.

Longevity. Enlisted men Longevity. Payaccounts.

For pay of twelve majors, in addition to pay as captain, six hundred dollars each, seven thousand two hundred dollars.
Additional pay for length of service; eighty-nine thousand eight hundred and ten dollars.
For pay of enlisted men, five hundred and eighty-nine thousand five hundred and ninety-two dollars and forty cents.
For additional pay for length of service, sixty-five thousand dollars.
All the money hereinbefore appropriated for pay of the Army and

miscellaneous, except the appropriation for mileage of officers and contract surgeons when authorized by law, shall be disbursed and

accounted for by officers of the Pay Department as pay of the Army,

and for that purpose shall constitute one fund.

Paymasters' clerks. Payandallowances.

Hereafter the pay and allowances of Army paymasters' clerks shall

Vol. 35, p. 128. Retired pay.

be the same as provided by law for Navy paymasters' clerks on shore duty, and they shall also be entitled to the same right of retirement

Proviso.

with the same retired pay as is now allowed Navy paymasters'clerks :

Subject to Articles Provided, That Army paymasters' clerks shall be subject to the rules

of War.

and articles of war.

Organized Militia. Expenses of En-

ENCAMPMENT AND MANEUVERS, ORGANIZED MILITIA: For paying

campments with the expenses of the Organized Militia of any State, Territory, or of

Army..

the District of Columbia, which may be authorized by the Secretary

of War to participate in such encampments as may be established for the field instruction of the troops of the Regular Army, as provided

Vol. 32, pp. 777, 779. by sections fifteen and twenty-one of the Act of January twenty-first, nineteen hundred and three, entitled, "An Act to promote the effi-

ciency of the militia, and for other purposes," to be immediately

available and to remain available until the end of the fiscal year

.nineteen hundred and thirteen, three hundred and fifty thousand

dollars .

Frank M. Rumbuld. Reimbursement for

Provided; That for' reimbursement to Brigadier General Frank M..

aMidlviatniac.es to Missouri Rumbold, adjutant general, State of Missouri, on account of expend-

Vol 32, p. 777.

iture of personal funds advanced by him for making payment to the troops of the State militia who participated with troops of the Regu-

lar Army in the joint encampment held at Fort Riley, Kansas, under

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1045

the provisions of section fifteen of the militia law, from September

first to tenth, nineteen hundred and ten, the Secretary of War is

authorized to pay the sum of ten thousand eight hundred and thirty- Ante, p. 1044.
four dollars and twenty-one cents from funds heretofore appropriated
for "Encampment and maneuvers, Organized Militia, nineteen hun-. Proviso. dred and ten and nineteen hundred and twelve :" Provided further, Expenditure recog

That said expenditure by Brigadier General Rumbold shall beregarded nized.

as a payment to the troops by the United States as evidenced by

receipted rolls now held by the War Department.

EQUIPMENT

OF

COAST

ARTILLERY,

ARMORIES,

ORGANIZED

MILITIA:

Militia lery.

coast

artil-

Dummy guns and mortars ; mounts for dummy guns and mortars ; moErqiuesi.pment of ar-

dummy ammunition ; loading appliances ; range and position finding

equipment; aiming and laying devices; subcaliber tubes and mount-

ings therefor ; labor and material necessary to install dummy guns and mortars, and to provide appliances and devices for instructional purposes in, armory buildings provided by States for Coast Artillery

companies of the Organized Militia, three hundred and thirty-eight thousand one hundred and seventy dollars..
Upon the request of the governors of the several States and Terri- toDrest,aeitlcs., offorinosrtgraunctories concerned, the President may detach officers of the active list ized militia.
of the Army from their proper commands for duty as inspectors and instructors of the Organized Militia, as follows, namely: Not to exceed one officerforeachregiment and separate battalion of infantry, oritsequiva- Provisos. lent of othertroops : Provided, Thatline officers detached for duty with Vacancies from dethe Organized Militia under the provisions hereof, together with those tails.
detached from their proper commands, under the provisions of law, for other duty the usual period of which exceeds one year, shall be subject to the provisions of section twenty-seven of the Act approved Vol.31, p. 755. February second, nineteen hundred and one, with reference to details to the staff corps, but the total number of detached officers hereby Number limited. made subject to these provisions shall not exceed two hundred:
Proportion of deAnd providedfurther, That the number of such officers detached from tached officers. each of the several branches of the line of the Army shall be in pro-
portion to the authorized commissioned strength of that branch ;

they shall be of the grades first lieutenant to colonel, inclusive, and

the number detached from each grade shall be in proportion to the

number in that grade now provided by law for the whole Army. The gradeinofgsveaccoanncdilelseiun-

vacancies hereby caused or created in the grade of second lieutenant tenants.

shall be filled in accordance with existing law, one-half in each fiscal

year until the total number of vacancies shall have been filled :

Provided,

That

hereafter

vacancies

in

the

grade

of

second

lieutenant

meonntd.er

of ·

appoint-

occurring in any fiscal year shall be filled by appointment in the

following order, namely: First, of cadets graduated from the United

States Military Academy during that fiscal year; second, of enlisted

men whose fitness for promotion shall have been determined by

competitive examination; third, of candidates from civil life between

the ages of twenty-one and twenty-seven years. The President is
authorized to make rules and regulations to carry these provisions Quartermaster's Deinto effect: Provided, That the Quartermaster's Department is partment.
Officers added. hereby increased by two colonels, three lieutenant colonels, seven Vol.31, pp. 751, 755.
majors, and eighteen captains, the vacancies thus created to be filled

by promotion and detail in accordance with section twenty-six of the Act approved February second, nineteen hundred and one.

SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT.

Subsistence Department.

Purchase of subsistence supplies : For issue, as rations to troops, etcS.upplies,purchases. civil employees when entitled thereto, hospital matrons, nurses, applicants for enlistment while held under observation, general prisoners of war (including Indians held by the Army as prisoners,
88740°-vol 36, PT 1-11-68

1046

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

but for whose subsistence appropriation is not otherwise made), Indians employedwith the Army, withoutpay, asguides and scouts, and military convicts at posts; for the subsistence of the masters, officers,

crews, and employees of the vessels of the Army transport service; hot coffee for troops traveling when supplied with cooked or travel

rations; meals for recruiting parties, and applicants for enlistment while held under observation; authorized issues of soap, candles,

matches, toilet paper, salt, vinegar, flour, and towels ; authorized issues of toilet articles, barbers ' , laundry, and tailors ' materials, for use of military convicts confined at military posts without pay or allowances, and applicants for enlistment while held under observa-

tion ; for issues of toilet kits to recruits upon their first enlistment ; ice for issue to organizations of enlisted men at such places as the Secretary of War may determine ; for sales to officers and enlisted men of

Provisos. National match.

the Army; coffee roasters and cooking apparatus in the field, and when traveling (except on transports), bake ovens and apparatus pertaining thereto ; scales, weights, measures, utensils, tools, stationery, blank books and forms, office furniture, commissary chests and rifle outfits, and field desks of commissaries: Provided, That the sum of twelve thousand dollars is authorized to be expended for supplying

Bestriction.

meals or furnishing commutation of rations to enlisted men of the Regular Army and the Organized Militia who may be competitors in the national rifle match: And providedfurther, That no competitor shall be entitled to commutation of rations in excess of one dollar

and fifty cents per day, and when meals are furnished no greater ex-

pense than that sum per man per day for the period the contest is in CPoamymmuetnattsi. on of ra- progress shall be incurred . For payments: Of commutation of

tions.

rations to the cadets at the United States Military Academy in lieu

of the regular established ration, at the rate of thirty cents per ration ; of the regulation allowances of commutation in lieu of rations to enlisted men on furlough, enlisted men and male and female nurses

when stationed at places where rations in kind can not be economically issued, and when traveling on detached duty where it is impracticable

-to carry rations of any kind, enlisted men selected to contest for places

or prizes in department and Army rifle competitions while traveling to and from places of contest, male and female nurses on leaves of absence, applicants for enlistment and military convicts while travel-

ing under orders; of commutation of rations in lieu of the regular established ration for members of the Nurse Corps (female) while on

duty in hospital, at forty cents per ration, and for enlisted men, applicants for enlistment while held under observation, and military convicts sick therein, at the rate of thirty cents per ration (except that at the general hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, fifty cents per ration andat other general hospitals forty cents per ration are authorized for enlisted patients therein), to be paid to the surgeon in charge; vifliaamnpse. nsation ofcl of compensation of civilians employed in the Subsistence DepartmeExnt,reatc.pay, enlisted ment ; of extra pay to enlisted men employed on extra duty in the Subsistence Department for periods of not less than ten days, at rates fixed by law; of extra-duty pay at rates to be fixed by the Secretary of War for mess stewards and cooks at recruit depots, who are to be graduates at the schools for bakers and cooks, and instructor cooks at the schools for bakers and cooks ; for printing, advertising, com-

mercial newspapers, and use of telephones ; for temporary buildings,

Prizes for bakers cellars, and other means of protecting subsistence supplies (when not

and cooks.

provided by the Quartermaster's Department) ; for providing prizes

to be established by the Secretary of War for enlisted men of the

Army who graduate from the Army schools for bakers and cooks, the total amount of such prizes at the various schools not to exceed nine

Amount.

hundred dollars per annum ; for other necessary expenses incident to the purchase, testing, care, preservation, issue, sale, and accounting for subsistence supplies for the Army ; in all, nine million thirty-three

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. .C. 209. 1911.

1047

thousand five hundred and seventy-nine dollars and forty cents, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War, and accounted for as "Subsistence of the Army," and for that purpose to constitute one fund:

Provided, That hereafter when under the Army Regulations sub- buSruepapulsi,eestct.o other sistence supplies are furnished to another bureau of the War Depart-

ment, or to another executive department of the Government or em-

ployees thereof, payment therefor shall be made in cash by the proper

disbursing officer of the bureau, office, or department concerned, or by Rates. the employee to whom the sale is made. When the transaction is To War Department

between two bureaus of the War Department the price to be charged bureaus.

shall be the contract or invoice price of the supplies.

When

the

Other departments, etc.

transaction is between the Subsistence Department and another

executive department of the Government or employees thereof; the

price to be charged shall include the contract or invoice price and ten

per centum additional to cover wastage in transit, and the cost of transportation.

QUARTERMASTER'S DEPARTMENT.

Quartermaster's De partment.

REGULAR SUPPLIES: Regular supplies of the Quartermaster's Regular supplies.

Department, including their care and protection, consisting of stoves and heating apparatus required for heating offices, hospitals, barracks

and quarters, and recruiting stations, and United States military

prison ; also ranges and stoves, and appliances for cooking and serving

food at posts, and repair and maintenance of such heating and cooking appliances ; for furnishing heat and light for the authorized

allowance of quarters for officers and enlisted men, for contract sur-

geons and contract dental surgeons when stationed at, and occupying

public quarters at, military posts, for officers of the national guard

attending service and garrison schools, and for recruits, guards, .

hospitals, storehouses, offices, the buildings erected at private cost in the operation of the Act approved May thirty-first, nineteen hun- Vol. 32, p. 282.

dred and two; for sale to officers, and including also fuel and engine supplies required in the operation of modern batteries at established

posts ; for post bakeries; for ice machines and their maintenance

where required for the health and comfort of the troops and for cold storage; for the construction, operation, and maintenance of laundries at military posts in the United States and its island possessions;

for the necessary furniture, text-books, paper, and equipment for the

post schools and libraries; for the tableware and mess furniture for kitchens and mess halls, each and all for the enlisted men, including recruits; of forage in kind for the horses, mules, and oxen of the Forage, etc.

Quartermaster's Department at the several posts and stations and

with the armies in the field, and for the horses of the several regiments

of cavalry, the batteries of artillery, and such companies of infantry

and scouts as may be mounted, and for the authorized number of officers' horses, including bedding for the animals; of straw for soldiers' bedding, and of stationery, typewriters and exchange of same,

including blank books for the Quartermaster's Department, certifi-

cates for discharged soldiers, blank forms for the Pay and Quarter-

master's Departments, and for printing department orders and reports: Provided, That no part of the appropriations for the Quartermaster's Department shall be expended on printing unless the same shall be done at the Government Printing Office, or by contract

PPrroivnitsionsg.

after due notice and competition, except in such cases as the emergency

will not admit of the giving notice of competition, and in cases where

it is impracticable to have the necessary printing done by contract the same may be done, with the approval of the Secretary of War, by the purchase of material and hire of the necessary labor for the

1048

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

Ice machines, etc. purpose. For the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred prDoidsupcotssa.l ofsurplus and twelve, whenever the ice machines, steam laundries, and electric
plants shall not come in competition with private enterprise for sale to

the public, and in the opinion of the Secretary of War it becomes necessary to the economical use and administration of such ice machines,

steam laundries, and electric plants as have been or may hereafter be established in pursuance of law, surplus ice may be disposed of,

laundry work may be done for other branches of the Government,

and surplus electric light and power may be sold on such terms and in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the SecreUse ofproceeds, etc. tary of War: Provided, That the funds received from such sales and

in payment for such laundry work shall be used to defray the cost of operation of said ice, laundry, and electric plants ; and the sales and

expenditures herein provided for shall be accounted for in accordance with the methods prescribed by law, and any sums remaining, after

such cost of maintenance and operation have been defrayed, shall be

Amount.

deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriation from which the cost of operation of such plant is paid, eight million three hundred

and thirty-three thousand three hundred and eighty-seven dollars and

thirty-three cents. scEhoqoulisp. ment of post For the purchase of the necessary instruments, office furniture, sta-

tionery, and other authorized articles required for the equipment and

use of the officers ' schools at the several military posts, nine thousand

Incidental expenses. three hundred and fifty dollars. INCIDENTAL EXPENSES : Postage ; cost of telegrams on official busi-

ness received and sent by officers of the Army; extra pay to soldiers employed on extra duty, under the direction of the Quartermaster's Department, in the erection of barracks, quarters, and storehouses, in the construction of roads and other constant labor for periods of not less than ten days, and as clerks for post quartermasters at military

posts, and for prison overseers at posts designated by the War Department for the confinement of general prisoners, and for the United States militaryprison guard; for expenses of expresses to and fromfrontier posts and armies in the field, of escorts to paymasters and other disbursing officers, and to trains where military escorts can not be furnished; authorized office furniture, hire of laborers in the Quartermaster's Department, including the care of officers' mounts when the same are furnished by the Government and the hire of interpreters, spies, or guides for the Army; compensation of clerks and other employees to the officers of the Quartermaster's Department, and clerks, foremen, watchmen, and organist for the United States mili-

tary prison, and incidental expenses of recruiting; for the apprehension, securing, and delivering of deserters, including escaped military prisoners, and the expenses incident to their pursuit, and no greater sum than fifty dollars for each deserter or escaped military prisoner

shall, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, be paid to any civil officer or citizen for such services and expenses ; for a donation of five dollars to each dishonorably discharged prisoner upon his release from

confinement, under court-martial sentence, involving dishonorable dis-

Horseexpenditures. charge; for the following expenditures required for the several regiments of Cavalry, the batteries of Light Artillery, and such companies

of Infantry and scouts as may be mounted, the authorized number of officers' horses, and for the trains, to wit: Hire of veterinary surgeons,

Amount.

purchase of medicines for horses and mules, picket ropes, blacksmith's tools and materials, horseshoes and blacksmith's tools for the Cavalry service, and for the shoeing of horses and mules, and such additional expenditures as are necessary and authorized by lawin the movements and operations of the Army, and at military posts, and not expressly assigned to any other department, two million one hundred thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1049

HORSES FOR CAVALRY, ARTILLERY, AND ENGINEERS: For the pur- Horses, etc.

chase of horses for officers entitled to public mounts; for the Cavalry, Artillery, Signal Corps, and Engineers, the United States Military Academy, service schools, and staff colleges, and for the Indian scouts, and for such Infantry and members of the Hospital Corps in field campaigns as may be required to be mounted, and the expenses inci- . dent thereto, including not to exceed two hundred thousand dollars

for the purchase of land accessible to the horse-raising section of the hoLrasnerdaiinsiVnigr.giniafor State of Virginia, for the assembling, grazing, and training of horses purchased for the mounted service, five hundred and seventeen thou-
sand one hundred and sixty-five dollars and fifty cents : Provided, Limits.os. That the number of horses purchased under this appropriation, added
to the number now on hand, shall be limited to the actual needs of

the mounted service, including reasonable provisions for remounts,

and, unless otherwise ordered by the Secretary of War, no part of this appropriation shall be paid out for horses not purchased by contract after competition duly invited by the Quartermaster's Department

and an inspection under the direction and authority of the Secretary of War. When practicable, horses shall be purchased, in the open market at all military posts or stations, when needed, at a maximum price to be fixed by the Secretary of War: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be used for breeding purposes: Providedfurther, That no part of this appropriation shall be expended for the'

Breedingforbidden. Standard required .

purchase of any horses below the standard set by Army Regulations forCavalry andArtillery horses, except whenpurchased for instruction Remount detachof cadets at the United States Military Academy: Provided further, ments That hereafter from the enlisted force of the Army now provided by law the President may authorize the organization of remount detach- , ments at each of the remount depots, and may authorize the appointment therein of such noncommissioned officers, mechanics, artíficers, farriers, horseshoers, and cooks as may be necessary for the adminis
tration of such remount depots : Provided, That nothing herein shall Restriction. be so construed as to authorize an increase in the total number of

enlisted men of the Army now authorized by law.

Barracks and quar-

BARRACKS AND QUARTERS: For barracks, quarters, stables, store- ters.

houses, magazines, administration and office buildings, sheds, shops,

and other buildings necessary for the shelter of troops, public animals,

and stores, and for administration purposes, except those pertaining to the Seacoast Artillery; for repairing public buildings at military posts; for extra-duty pay to enlisted men and hire of employees;

for rental of the authorized allowance of quarters for officers on duty with the troops at posts and stations where no public quarters are available; of barracks or authorized allowance of quarters for non- 

commissioned officers and enlisted men on duty where public quarters are not available; of grounds for cantonments, camp sites, and other

military purposes, and of buildings or portions of buildings for occupation by troops, for use as stables, storehouses, and offices, and for other military purposes; for the hire of recruiting stations and lodgings for recruits; for such furniture for the public rooms of officers'

messes and for officers' quarters at military posts, as may be approved by the Secretary of War; for wall lockers in permanent barracks and

refrigerators in barracks and quarters; for screen doors, window screens, storm doors and sash, and window shades for barracks, offices, and · Provisos. quarters, and for flooring and framing for tents: Provided, That no Commutation re-
part of the moneys so appropriated shall be paid for commutation of strCiicvtiiloinasn employees. fuel or quarters to officers or enlisted men: Providedfurther, That the

number of and total sum paid for civilian employees in the Quartermaster General's Department, including those paid from the fund

appropriated for regular, supplies, incidental expenses, barracks and

quarters, Army transportation, clothing, camp and garrison equipage,

1050

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

shall be limited to the actual requirements of the service, and that no

employee paid therefrom shall receive a salary of more than one hun-

dred and fifty dollars per month, except upon the approval of the

anFdoFrotrtYeSlalmowHsotounse- Secretary of War: Provided further, That twenty-five thousand dol

ton .

lars of the sum herein appropriated may be used for the construction

chCapoenlss.truction of and completion of a chapel in the Yellowstone National Park on or near the military reservation of Fort Yellowstone; and that ten thou-

sand dollars of the sum herein appropriated may be used for the com-

ateAlmyoauvanitlaiblmem. edi- pletion of the chapel building at Fort Sam Houston, Texas: And pro-

vided further, That of the sum herein appropriated two hundred and

twenty-one thousand seven hundred dollars shall be immediately

available for the construction of barracks and quarters, one million

Post exchanges.

eight hundred and fifty-six thousand and fifty dollars. MILITARY POST EXCHANGE : For continuing the construction ,

equipment, and maintenance of suitable buildings at military posts and stations for the conduct of the post exchange, school, library,

reading, lunch, amusement rooms, and gymnasium, including repairs

to buildings erected at private cost in the operation of the Act approved May thirty-first, nineteen hundred and two, to be expended in the discretion and under the direction of the Secretary of War,

Transportation.

forty thousand dollars. TRANSPORTATION OF THE ARMY AND ITS SUPPLIES : For transporta-
tion of the Army and its supplies, including transportation of the

troops when moving either by land or water, and of their baggage, including the cost of packing and crating; for transportation of

recruits and recruiting parties ; of applicants for enlistment between recruiting stations and recruiting depots ; of persons on their discharge from the United States military prison to their homes (or elsewhere as they may elect), provided the cost in each case shall not be greater than to the place of last enlistment ; of supplies furnished to the militia for the permanent equipment thereof; of the necessary agents and other employees ; ' of clothing and equipage and other quartermaster's stores from Army depots or places of purchase or delivery to the several posts and Army depots, and from those depots to the troops in the field ; of horse equipments and of subsistence stores from places of purchase and from the places of delivery under contract to such places as the circumstances of the service may require them to be sent ; of ordnance and ordnance stores, and small arms from the foundries and armories to the arsenals, fortifications, frontier posts,

and Army depots ; for payment of wharfage, tolls, and ferriage; for
graPnatyrmaeinlrtoatdso. land- transportation of funds of the Army; for the hire of employees ; for the payment of Army transportation lawfully due such land-grant railroads as have not received aid in Government bonds (to be

adjusted in accordance with the decisions of the Supreme Court in

Prorisos.

cases decided under such land-grant Acts), but in no case shall more

than fifty per centum of full amount of service be paid: Provided,

tioons.is of computa. That such compensation shall be computed upon the basis of the tariff

or lower special rates for like transportation performed for the public

at large, and shall be accepted as in full for all demands for such

roaFdisftnyotpbeorndceanitdedt.o service : Providedfurther, That in expending the money appropriated

by this Act a railroad company which has not received aid in bonds of

the United States, and which obtained a grant of public land to aid in the construction of its railroad on condition that such railroad should

be a post route and military road, subject to the use of the United States for postal, military, naval, and other Government services, and also subject to such regulations as Congress may impose restricting the charge for such Government transportation, having claims against the United States for transportation of troops and munitions of war and military supplies and property over such aided railroads, shall be paid out of the moneys appropriated by the foregoing provision only on the basis of such rate for the transportation of such troops and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. · CH. 209.´ 1911 .

1051

munitions of war and military supplies and property as the Secretary of War shall deem just and reasonable under the foregoing provision,

such rate not to exceed fifty per centum of the compensation for such

Government transportation as shall at that time be charged to, and

paid by private parties to any such company for like and similar

transportation; and the amount so fixed to be paid shall be accepted

as in full for all demands for such service;

for the purchase and hire Draft and pack animals, etc.

of draft and pack animals in such numbers as are actually required for

the service, including reasonable provision for replacing unserviceable

animals; for the purchase, hire, operation, maintenance, and repair

of such harness, wagons, carts, drays, and other vehicles as are

required for the transportation of troops and supplies, and for official,

military and garrison purposes ; for drayage and cartage at the several depots; for the hire of teamsters and other employees; and for extra-duty pay of enlisted men driving teams, repairing means of transportation, and employed as train masters; for the purchase and repair of ships, boats, and other vessels required for the transporta-

Ship, boats, etc.

tion of troops and supplies and for official, military and garrison purposes; for expenses of sailing public transports and other vessels

on the various rivers, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Atlantic and Pacific to
Oceans: Provided, That hereafter when, in the opinion of the Secretary ReTrvaensnpuoreta-tCiuontter
of War, accommodations are available, transportation on vessels of Service.

the Army transport service may be furnished the officers, employees, and enlisted men of the Revenue-Cutter Service, and their families,

without expense to the United States, and also secretaries and supplies Young Men's Chris-
of the Army and Navy department of the Young Men's Christian tian Association. Transportation to
Association: Provided further, That hereafter when there is cargo Guam.
space available without displacing military supplies, transportation

may be provided for merchandise of American production consigned
to residents and mercantile firms of the island of Guam, rates and Officers regulations therefor to be prescribed by the Secretary of War: Pro- ducers on official

vided further, That hereafter in the performance of their official and military duties officers ofthe Army are authorized, under such regula-

tions as may be established by the Secretary of War, to use means of Motorvehicles. transportation herein provided for: And provided further, That the Disallowances for
accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and directed mtoevmepdo. raryhire reto remove any suspensions or disallowances inthe accounts of quarter-
masters for the fiscal years nineteen hundred and nine, nineteen hundred and ten, and nineteen hundred and eleven, for the temporary

hire of motor vehicles, and for the repair, operation, and maintenance of motor vehicles in the Quartermaster's Department, when approved

by the Secretary of War as necessary for the public service; and for Harbor boats, etc.

the purchase and repair of harbor boats, and repair of boats for the

Seacoast Artillery service, eleven million twenty-three thousand six hundred and fifteen dollars and six cents.

ROADS, WALKS, WHARVES, AND DRAINAGE: For the construction MRiolaidtsa,rwyhpaorstvse.s,etc.

:

and repairs by the Quartermaster's Department of roads, walks, and

wharves; for payment of extra-duty pay to enlisted men employed in opening roads and in building wharves; for the pay of employees;

for the disposal of drainage; for dredging channels and for care and

improvement of grounds at military posts and stations, four hundred

and forty-nine thousand three hundred and fifteen dollars and

seventy-nine cents.

WATER AND SEWERS AT MILITARY POSTS: For procuring and intro- Water,sewers, etc. ducing water to buildings and premises at such military posts and

stations as from their situation require it to be brought from a

distance; for the purchase and repair of fire apparatus; for the disposal of sewage ; for repairs to water and sewer systems and for hire

of employees, two million two hundred and fifty thousand nine

1052

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. . CH. 209. 1911 .

Provisos. Fort D. A.

Russell,

hundred

and

three

dollars

and

twenty-seven

cents :

Provided,

That

Wyo.

not to exceed one hundred thousand dollars of this sum may

Protecting water

supply, etc.

be used for the improvement and protection of, the water sup-

ply and for the improvement of the grounds of the Fort D. A.

Russell target and maneuver reservation, Wyoming, and that from

the sum hereby appropriated the Secretary of War is authorized,

in his discretion, to acquire by purchase or condemnation pro-

ceedings certain tracts of land required for the maneuvering of troops

and other military purposes, lying within the limits of the aforesaid

PForrottMeecatdien,gS.waDtaekr, reservation : Providedfurther, That not to exceed seventeen thousand

supply.

two hundred dollars of this sum may be used for the protection of the

water supply of Fort Meade, South Dakota, and that from the sum

hereby appropriated the Secretary of War is authorized, in his discre-

tion, to acquire by purchase or condemnation proceedings one and

one-quarter sections of land located on Dead Mans Creek, South

Dakota:

Alaska. Military and post

CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF MILITARY AND POST ROADS,

roads, etc. Vol. 33, p. 616.

BRIDGES, AND TRAILS, ALASKA: For the construction and maintenance

of military and post roads, bridges, and trails in the District of

Alaska, to be expended under the direction of the board of road commissioners described in section two of an Act entitled " An Act to

provide for the construction and maintenance of roads, the establishment and maintenance of schools, and the care and support of insane

persons in the District of Alaska, and for other purposes," approved

January twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and five, and to be

expended conformably to the provisions of said Act, one hundred and

fifty thousand dollars, to remain available until the close of the fiscal Proviso.
Retired officers may year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and thirteen : Provided,

ssieornveerass. road commis- That hereafter the Secretary of 'War may, in his discretion, assign

Pay.

suitable retired officers of the Army to active duty as members of the

Vol, 33, p. 264. board of road commissioners for Alaska, and in the case of any officer

so assigned the provisions of so much of the Act of Congress approved

April twenty-third, nineteen hundred and four, entitled "An Act

making appropriations for the support of the Army for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and five, and for other purposes," as relates to the assignment of retired officers to active

duty shall apply. Philippine Islands. BARRACKS AND QUARTERS, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS : Continuing the terBsa.rracks and quar- work of providing for the proper shelter and protection of officers and

enlisted men of the Army of the United States lawfully on duty in

the Philippine Islands, including repairs and payment of rents, the

acquisition of title to building sites, and such additions to existing

military reservations as may be necessary, and including also shelter

Proviso.

for the animals and supplies, and all other buildings necessary for

Restriction on post administration purposes, six hundred thousand dollars: Pro-

aqumaorutenrts. for officers' vided, That no part of said six hundred thousand dollars shall be expended for the construction of quarters for officers of the Army,
the total cost of which, including the heating and plumbing apparatus,

wiring and fixtures, shall exceed in the case of quarters of a general officer the sum of twelve thousand dollars ; of a colonel or officer above

the rank of captain, ten thousand dollars; and of an officer of and

below the rank of captain, six thousand dollars.

Clothing, and camp and garrison equi-

CLOTHING, AND CAMP AND GARRISON EQUIPAGE : For cloth, woolens,

page.

materials, and for the manufacture of clothing for the Army, for issue

and for sale at cost price according to the Army regulations ; for

altering and fitting clothing and washing and cleaning, when neces-,

sary; for equipage, and for expenses of packing and handling and

similar necessaries ; for a suit of citizen's outer clothing, to cost not

exceeding ten dollars, to be issued upon release from confinement to

each prisoner who has been confined under a court-martial sentence!

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

1053

involving dishonorable discharge; for indemnity to officers and men of the Army for clothing and bedding; and so forth, destroyed since April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, by order of medical officers of the Army for sanitary reasons, four million nine hundred and one thousand two hundred and seventy-one dollars and

sixty-seven cents. .CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF HOSPITALS: For construction and Hospitals.

repair of hospitals at military posts already established and occupied, including the extra-duty pay of enlisted men employed on the same, and including also all expenditures for construction and repairs

required at the Army and Navy Hospital at Hot Springs, Arkansas, Hot Springs, Ark. and for the construction and repair of general hospitals and expenses
incident thereto, and for additions needed to meet the requirements
of increased garrisons, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
QUARTERS FOR HOSPITAL STEWARDS: For construction and repair taQlusatretwearrsdsf.or hosplof quarters for hospital stewards at military posts already established
and occupied, including the extra-duty pay of enlisted men employed on the same, ten thousand dollars.
SHOOTING GALLERIES AND RANGES : For shelter, shooting galleries, Shooting ranges, etc.
ranges for small-arms target practice, repairs, and expenses incident

thereto, such ranges and galleries to be open, as far as practicable, to · the National Guard and organized rifle clubs under regulations to be
prescribed by the Secretary of War, one hundred and twenty-five
thousand nine hundred and eighty-five dollars.

MAINTENANCE OF THE ARMY WAR COLLEGE : For supplying the ArmyWarCollege. necessary fuel for heating the Army War College building at Washington Barracks and for lighting the building and grounds ; also for

pay of a chief engineer, at one thousand two hundred dollars per annum; an assistant engineer, at nine hundred dollars; four firemen,
at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one elevator conductor, at seven hundred and twenty dollars, twelve thousand seven hundred, dollars.

TRANSPORTATION OF OFFICERS' HORSES: The accounting officers ofTfricaenrss'phoorrtsaetsi.on of

of the Treasury are hereby authorized and directed to remove any meSnutsspefnosr,iroensmoovfepda.y. suspensions in the accounts of quartermasters for the fiscal years

nineteen hundred and nine and nineteen hundred and ten for pay-

ments for the transportation of officers' authorized horses during the

said period; and payment from unexpended balances in the Treasury Allowance from balof the appropriation " Transportation of the Army and its supplies , ances

for the fiscal years nineteen hundred and nine and nineteen hundred

and ten, is hereby authorized and directed to be made to common

carriers having claims against the United States for transportation of

officers' authorized horses during the period hereinbefore mentioned ;

and

reimbursement

is

hereby. authorized

and

directed,

from

unex-

Reimbursement of suspended accounts.

pended balances hereinbefore mentioned, to officers of the Army for

payments made by them to disbursing officers on account of suspen-

sions made by the accounting officers of the Treasury for transportation of their authorized horses.

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.

Medical Départment.

MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT: For the purchase ofmedical and hospital supplies, including ambulances and disinfectants, for militaryposts,camps, hospitals, hospital ships, and transports ; forexpenses of medical supply depots; for medical care and treatment not otherwise provided for, including care and subsistence in private hospitals, of officers, enlisted men, and civilian employees of the Army, of applicants for enlistment, and of prisoners of war and other persons in military custody or confinement, when entitled thereto by law,

Supplies, etc:

1054

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

Proviso. Private treatment. regulation, or contract : Provided, That this shall not apply to officers
and enlisted men who are treated in private hospitals or by civilian

physicians while on furlough ; for the proper care and treatment of Contagiousdiseases. epidemic and contagious diseases in the Army or at military posts or

Nurses, etc.

stations, including measures to prevent the spread thereof, and the payment of reasonable damages not otherwise provided for, for bedding and clothing injured or destroyed in such prevention; for the pay of male and female nurses, not including the Nurse Corps (female) , and of cooks and other civilians employed for the proper care of sick officers and soldiers , under such regulations fixing their

number, qualifications, assignment, pay, and allowances as shall have been or shall be prescribed by the Secretary of War; for the pay of civilian physicians employed to examine physically applicants for

enlistment and enlisted men, and to render other professional services from time to time under proper authority ; for the pay of other employees of the Medical Department ; for the payment of express

companies and local transfers employed directly by the Medical

Hospital, Springs, Ark.'
Museum.
Library.

Department for the transportation of medical and hospital supplies, including bidders' samples and water for analysis ; for supplies for use in teaching the art of cooking to the Hospital Corps ; for the Hot supply of the Army and Navy Hospital at Hot Springs, Arkansas; for advertising, laundry, and all other necessary miscellaneous expenses of the Medical Department, seven hundred thousand dollars .
ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM AND LIBRARY: For Army Medical Museum, preservation of specimens, and the preparation and purchase of new specimens, five thousand dollars.
For the library of the Surgeon General's office, including the pur-

chase of necessary books of reference and periodicals, ten thousand dollars. Dental corps. Dental surgeons Hereafter there shall be attached to the Medical Department a
gaenodnsacatuitnhgodreinzteadl. sur dental corps, which shall be composed of dental surgeons and acting dental surgeons, the total number of which shall not exceed the pro-
portion of one to each thousand of actual enlisted strength of the

Army; the number of dental surgeons shall not exceed sixty, and the

Appointments.

number of acting dental surgeons shall be such as may, from time to time, be authorized by law. All original appointments to the dental corps shall be as acting dental surgeons, who shall have the same

official status, pay, and allowances as the contract dental surgeons now
prEoxmoatmiionnast.ions and authorized by law: Acting dental surgeons who have served three years in a manner satisfactory to the Secretary of War shall be

eligible for appointment as dental surgeons, and, after passing in a

Rank.

satisfactory manner an examination which may be prescribed bythe Secretary of War, may be commissioned with the rank of first lieuten-

ant in the dental corps to fill the vacancies existing therein. Officers of the dental corps shall have rank in such corps according to date of their commissions therein and shall rank next below officers of the

Medical Reserve Corps. Their right to command shall be limited

Payandallowances. to the dental corps . The pay and allowances of dental surgeons shall

Provisos. Service pay.

be those of first lieutenants, including the right to retirement on account of age or disability, as in the case of other officers: Provided,
That the time served by dental surgeons as acting dental or contract dental surgeons shall be reckoned in computing the increased service

Qualifications.

pay of such as are commissioned under this Act. The appointees as acting dental surgeons must be citizens of the United States between

twenty-one and twenty-seven years of age, graduates of a standard

dental college, ofgood moral character andgood professional education, and they shall be required to pass the usual physical examination

required for appointment in the Medical Corps, and a professional examination which shall include tests of skill in practical dentistry

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

1055

and of proficiency in the usual subjects of a standard dental college

course: Provided, That the contract dental surgeons attached to the trEalcitgdiebniltiatlysuorfgecoonns-.

Medical Department at the time of the passage of this Act may be

eligible for appointment as first lieutenants, dental corps, without

limitation as to age : And provided further, That the professional Examinations

examination for such appointment may be waived in the case of con-

tract dental surgeons in the service at the time of the passage of this

Act whose efficiency reports and entrance examinations are satisfacBoard of examiners.
tory. The Secretary of War is authorized to appoint boards of three

examiners to conduct the examinations herein prescribed, one of

whom shall be a surgeon in the Army and two of whom shall be

selected by the Secretary of War from the commissioned dental sur-

geons.

BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS.

Bureau of Insular Affairs.

CARE OF INSANE FILIPINO SOLDIERS : For the care, maintenance, diCerasr.e of insane soland treatment at asylums in the Philippine Islands of insane natives - Philippine Islands, of the Philippine Islands cared for in such institutions conformably to the Act of Congress approved May eleventh, nineteen hundred and . Vol. 28, p. 122. eight, three thousand dollars.
CARE OF INSANE SOLDIERS, PORTO RICO REGIMENT OF INFANTRY: Porto Rico.
For the care, maintenance, and treatment at asylums in Porto Rico of insane soldiers of the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry, seven hundred and twenty dollars.

ENGINEER DEPARTMENT.

Engineer Department.

ENGINEER DEPOTS: For incidental expenses for the depots, includ- atIdnecpiodtens.tal expenses ing fuel, lights, chemicals, stationery, hardware, machinery, pay of civilian clerks, mechanics, and laborers, extra-duty pay to soldiers necessarily employed for periods not less than ten days as artificers on work in addition to and not strictly in the line of their military duties, such as carpenters, blacksmiths, draftsmen, printers, lithographers, photographers, engine drivers, telegraph operators, teamsters, wheelwrights, masons, machinists, painters, overseers, laborers ; for lumber and materials and for labor for packing and crating
engineer supplies ; repairs of, and for materials to repair, public buildings, machinery, and unforeseen expenses, twenty thousand dollars.
For purchase and repair of instruments to be issued to officers of inPsutrcuhmaesntes, . etc., of the Corps of Engineers and to officers detailed and on duty as acting engineer officers for use on public works and surveys, ten thousand dollars.
ENGINEER SCHOOL, WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA : Equip- Engineer BSacrhraocokls,, ment and maintenance. of the Engineer School at Washington Bar- D.ECquipment. racks, District of Columbia, including purchase of instruments, machinery, implements, models, and materials, for the use of the school and for instruction of engineer troops in their special duties as sappers and miners; for land mining, pontoniering, and signaling ; for purchase and binding of professional works and periodicals of recent date treating of military and civil engineering and kindred scientific subjects for the library of the United States Engineer Incidental expenses School; for incidental expenses of the school, including fuel, lights, chemicals, stationery, hardware, machinery, and boats; for pay of civilian clerks, draftsmen, electricians, mechanics, and laborers ; compensation of civilian lecturers and payment of tuition fees of student officers at civil technical institutions ; for extra-duty pay
to soldiers necessarily employed for periods not less than ten days as artificers on work in addition to and not strictly in the line of their military duties, such as carpenters, blacksmiths, draftsmen, printers, lithographers, photographers, engine drivers, telegraph operators,

1056

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911.

telephone operators, teamsters, wheelwrights, masons, machinists,

Travel expenses.
Proviso. In lieu of mileage.

painters, overseers, laborers ; for repairs of and materials to repair public buildings and machinery; for unforeseen expenses ; for travel expenses of officers on journeys approved by the Secretary of War and made for the purpose of instruction : Provided, That the traveling expenses herein provided for shall be in lieu of mileage and other

allowances; and to provide means for the theoretical and practical Text-books, etc.
instruction at the Engineer School by the purchase of text-books,

Pontoon etc.

books of reference, scientific and professional papers, and for other
absolutely necessary expenses, twenty-five thousand dollars. material ,
ENGINEER EQUIPMENT OF TROOPS : For pontoon material, tools,
instruments, and supplies required for use in the engineer equipment

Pontoon shed.

of troops, including the purchase and preparation of engineer manuals, seventy-five thousand dollars.
For construction of pontoon shed at Washington Barracks, District

of Columbia, for shelter for new pontoon and bridge material, which

Surveyors, etc.

has heretofore been stored in the open air, fifteen thousand dollars. CIVILIAN ASSISTANTS TO ENGINEER OFFICERS : For services of sur-

veyors, survey parties, draftsmen, photographers, master laborers,

and clerks to engineer officers on the staff of division, corps, and

department commanders, forty-two thousand dollars.

Philippine Islands. CONTINGENCIES, ENGINEER DEPARTMENT, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS : Contingencies.
For contingent expenses incident to the operations of the Engineer

Department in the Philippine Islands, to be expended at the discre-

tion of the Secretary of War, five thousand dollars.

Paymentofpressing obligations from

Hereafter whenever pressing obligations are required to be paid by a

available balances. disbursing officer of the Engineer Department and there is an insuffi-

cient balance to his official credit under the proper appropriation or

appropriations for the purpose, he is authorized to make payment from the total available balance to his official credit, provided suffi-

Adjustment.

cient funds under the proper appropriation or appropriations have been allotted by the Chief of Engineers for the expenditure. When

such disbursements are made the accounts of the disbursing officer shall show the charging of the proper appropriations, the balances

under which will be adjusted by the disbursing officer on receipt of

funds or by the accounting officers of the Treasury.

Ordnance Department.

ORDNANCE DEPARTMENT.

Current expenses. ORDNANCE SERVICE: For the current expenses of the Ordnance

Department, in connection with purchasing, receiving, storing, and

issuing ordnance and ordnance stores, comprising police and office duties, rents, tolls, fuel, light, water, and advertising, stationery, and

office furniture, tools, and instruments of service; for incidental

expenses of the ordnance service and those attending practical trials and tests of ordnance, small arms, and other ordnance stores ; and

for publications for libraries of the Ordnance Department, including

the Ordnance Office, and payment for mechanical labor in the office

of the Chief of Ordnance, three hundred and thirty-seven thousand

dollars.

Ammunition for smallarms, etc.

ORDNANCE STORES -AMMUNITION : Manufacture and purchase of

ammunition and materials therefor for small arms for reserve supply ;

ammunition for burials at the National Soldiers' Home in Washington,

District of Columbia ; ammunition for firing the morning and evening gun at military posts prescribed by General Orders, Numbered

Seventy, Headquarters of the Army, dated July twenty-third, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven , and at National Home for Disabled

Volunteer Soldiers and its several branches, including National Sol-

diers' Home in Washington, District of Columbia, and soldiers' and sailors' State homes, five hundred thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 209. 1911 .

1057

SMALL-ARMS TARGET PRACTICE : Ammunition, targets, and other
accessories for small-arms and machine-gun target practice and instruction; marksmen's medals, prize arms, and insignia for all arms of the service; and ammunition, targets, target material, and other accessories may be issued for small-arms target practice and instruction at the educational institutions and State soldiers' and

Target practice.

sailors' orphans' homes, to which issues of small arms are lawfully
made, under such regulations as the Secretary of War may prescribe, provided the total value of the stores so issued to the educationa institutions does not exceed thirty thousand dollars, one million dollars..
Manufacturing,etc., MANUFACTURE OF ARMS: For manufacturing, repairing, procuring, arms.
and issuing arms at the national armories, seven hundred and fifty

thousand dollars : Provided, That whenever in his opinion a sufficient PIrsosvuiesoosf automatic
number of automatic pistols of the standard service type, holsters, pMiisltiotlisa. for Organized and pistol-cartridge boxes therefor, shall have been procured and be

available for the purpose, the Secretary of War is hereby authorized to issue, on the requisition of the governors of the several States and Territories, or of the commanding general of the Militia of the District

of Columbia, such number of standard pistols, holsters, and pistol-

cartridge boxes therefor as are required for arming all of the Organized Militia in said States, Territories, and District of Columbia, without No chargetoannual

charging the cost or value thereof, or any expense connected there- allotment

with, against the allotment to said State, Territory, or District of

Columbia, out of the annual appropriation provided by section sixteen hundred and sixty-one of the Revised Statutes, as amended, 29R0.. S., sec. 1661, p. ·

or requiring payment therefor, and to exchange, without receiving Vol . 34 , p. 449.

any money

credit

therefor,

ammunition,

or

parts

thereof,

suitable

to

Exchange material.

of old

the new standard pistol, round for round, for corresponding ammuni-

tion suitable to the old revolver theretofore issued to said States,

Territory, or District by the United States: Provided, That the said Accounting, etc.

standard pistols, holsters, and pistol-cartridge boxes therefor shall be receipted for and shall remain the property of the United States and be annually accounted for by the governors of the States and Territories and the commanding general of the Militia of the District of Columbia, as now required bylaw, and that each State, Territory, and

District shall, on receipt of the new pistols, holsters, and pistol- Ret cartridge boxes, and ammunition, turn in to the Ordnance Department of the United States Army, without receiving any money credit

of old re-

therefor and without expense for transportation, all United States revolvers and ammunition therefor, holsters, and revolver-cartridge
boxes now in its possession. Appropriation for
To provide means to carry into effect the foregoing provisions, the cost of exchanging, necessary money, not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars, to etc.
recover the cost of exchanging or issuing the new pistols, ammunition therefor, holsters, and pistol-cartridge boxes to be exchanged or issued
hereunder, is hereby appropriated out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
ORDNANCE STORES AND SUPPLIES: For overhauling, cleaning, re- naPnrcees.erving, etc.,ord-
pairing, and preserving ordnance and ordnance stores in the hands of troops and at the arsenals, posts, and depots ; for purchase and manu. facture of ordnance stores to fill requisitions of troops; for Infantry, Equipments.
Cavalry, and Artillery equipments, including horse equipments for Cavalry and Artillery, eight hundred thousand dollars.
The Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed to release FSotrritpMaorfiolna,nFdlar. eto the city of Saint Augustine, Florida, a strip of land not exceeding tlienaes.ed toSaint Augustwenty-three feet in width, on the north line of Fort Marion Reservation for the purpose of restoring the street formerly known as Clinch
Street, extending from San Marco Avenue on the western boundary of said reservation eastward to the Matanzas River.

1058

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH8. 209, 210. 1911 .

Rifle contests. Trophy,medals,and NATIONAL TROPHY AND MEDALS FOR RIFLE CONTESTS : For the pur-

prizes.

pose of furnishing a national trophy and medals and other prizes to

be provided and contested for annually, under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of War, said contest to be open to

the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and the National Guard or Organized Militia of the several States, Territories, and of the District of Colum-

bia, members of rifle clubs and civilians, and for the cost of the trophy, prizes, and medals herein provided for, and for the promotion of rifle

practice throughout the United States, including the reimbursement of necessary expenses of members of the National Board for the Pro-

motion of Rifle Practice, to be expended for the purposes hereinbefore

prescribed under the direction of the Secretary of War, ten thousand

Automatic rifles. Purchase, etc.

dollars. Automatic rifles : For the purchase, manufacture, and test of auto-
matic rifles, including their sights and equipments, to be available

until the close of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hun-

dred and thirteen, two hundred thousand dollars.

Field Artillery material.

FIELD ARTILLERY FOR ORGANIZED MILITIA: For the purpose of

Issue to Organized procuring Field Artillery material for the Organized Militia of the

Militia authorized. several States, Territories, and the District of Columbia, without cost

to the said States, Territories, or the District of Columbia, but to

remain the property of the United States and to be accounted for in

the manner now prescribed by law, the Secretary of War is hereby govReerqnuoisrist, ieotcn.s from authorized, under such regulations as he may prescribe, on the requi-
sitions of the governors of the several States and Territories or the

Amount.

commanding general of the Militia of the District of Columbia, to issue said artillery material to the Organized Militia; and the sum of

seven hundred and seventy thousand dollars is hereby appropriated

and made immediately available and to remain available until the end of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and thirteen, for the procure-

ment and issue of the articles constituting the same, seven hundred

and seventy thousand dollars.

Line officers. Promotion to rank

On and after the passage of this Act, every line officer on the active

lost by regimental list below the grade of colonel who has lost in lineal rank through the

promotion.

system of regimental promotion in force prior to October first, eight-

een hundred and ninety, may, in the discretion of the President, and

subject to examination for promotion as prescribed by law, be

advanced to higher grades in his arm up to and including the grade of colonel, in accordance with the rank he would have been entitled

to hold had promotion been lineal throughout his arm or corps since

Provisos.

the date of his entry into the arm or corps to w ich he permanently

nuTmobebres. additional belongs : Provided, That officers advanced to higher, grades under the Not to affect promo- provisions of this Act shall be additional officers in those grades:

ltiaown.s under existing Provided further, That nothing in this Act shall operate to interfere

Status of officers ad- with or retard the promotion to which any officer would be entitled

vanced.

under existing law: And providedfurther, That the officers advanced

to higher grades under this Act shall be junior to the officers who now

rank them under existing law, when these officers have reached the

same grade.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

March 3, 1911. [II. R. 28406.]
[Public, No. 454.]

CHAP. 210.-An Act Making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various
Indian tribes, and for other purposes, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United apIpnrdopirainatDieopnasr. tment States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be,
and they are hereby, appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated for the .rpose of paying the current and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

1059

contingent expenses of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes, and in full compensa-
tion for all offices the salaries for which are provided for herein for the service of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, namely :
For the survey, resurvey, and classification of lands to be allotted ,loStumrevnetyssi, netsce.v,efroarlatly-. in severalty under the provisions of the Act of February eighth, Vol. 24, p.888.
eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, entitled "An Act, to provide for the allotment of lands in severalty to Indians," and under any other.

Act or Acts providing for the survey and allotment of lands in severalty to Indians, including the necessary clerical work incident

thereto and to the issuance of all patents in the field and in the office
of Indian Affairs, and to the delivery of trust patents for allotments Surveying reservaunder said Act or any such Act or Acts ; and for the survey and sub- tions, etc., for allotdivision of Indian reservations and lands to be allotted to Indians ments.
Repayments. under authority of law, two hundred and fifteen thousand dollars,
to be repaid proportionately out of any Indian moneys held in trust or otherwise by the United States and available by law for such reimbursable purpose and to remain available until expended.
For the construction, repair, and maintenance of ditches, reservoirs, Irrigation.

and dams, purchase and use of irrigation tools and appliances, water

rights, ditches, lands necessary for canals, pipe lines and reservoirs

for Indian reservations and allotments, and for drainage and protec-

tion

of irrigable

lands

from

damage

by

floods,

three

hundred

and Available -pended.

till ex-

fourteen thousand three hundred dollars, to remain available until` Provisos.

expended : Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be ex- Use restricted.

pended on any irrigation system or reclamation project for which specific appropriation is made in this Act or for which public funds are or may be available uhder any other Act of Congress : Provided vePyrs,eeltci.minary surfurther, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit reasonable expenditures from this appropriation for preliminary surveys and investigations to determine the feasibility and estimated

cost of new projects, for investigations and surveys for power and sitPeos.werandreservoir reservoirsites onIndian reservations in accordance with the provisions Ante, p. 859.
of section thirteen of the Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred

and ten, or to prevent the Bureau of Indian Affairs from having the Consultation with benefit of consultation with engineers in other branches of the public other bureaus.

service or carrying out existing agreements with the Reclamation Irrigation inspecService ; for pay of one chief inspector of irrigation, who shall be a tors.

skilled irrigation engineer, four thousand dollars; one assistant in-

spector of irrigation, who shall be a skilled irrigation engineer, two thousand five hundred dollars; for traveling expenses of two inspec-

tors of irrigation, at three dollars per diem when actually employed on duty in the field, exclusive of transportation and sleeping-car fare,

in lieu of all other expenses authorized by law, and for incidental ex-

penses of negotiation, inspection, and investigation, including tele-

graphing and expense of going to and from the seat of government and while remaining there under orders, four thousand two hundred

dollars ; in all, three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars: Pri Superintendents of vided also, That not to exceed seven superintendents of irrigation, irrigation.

who shall be skilled irrigation engineers, may be employed. For the suppression of the traffic in intoxicating liquors among trSaufpipc.ressing liquor

Indians, seventy-five thousand dollars.

Relief of distress,

To relieve distress among Indians and to provide for their care and preventing diseases,

for the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis, trachoma, smallpox, etc. and other contagious and infectious diseases, including the purchase

of vaccine and expense of vaccination, sixty thousand dollars. For support of Indian day and industrial schools, not otherwise Supportofschools.

provided for, and for other educational and industrial purposes in connection therewith, one million four hundred and twenty thousand dollars.

1060

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 .

Constructing school and agency buildings.. For construction, lease, purchase, repairs, and improvements of

school and agency buildings, and for sewerage, water supply, and

Provisos.

lighting plants, and for purchase of school sites, four hundred and

Report of expendi- twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of the

tures.

Interior shall report annually to Congress the amount expended at

each school and agency for the purposes herein authorized : Provided

miRtetpeodrtontoallbeschsouobl further, That on the first Monday in December, nineteen hundred and

atineds. agency proper- eleven, the Secretary of the Interior shall transmit to Congress a report in respect to all school and agency properties entitled to share

Details

in appropriations, general or specific, made in this Act and such report shall show specifically the cost investment in such properties

as of July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, including appropria-

tions made available by this Act, ( 1 ) for the purchase, construction,

or lease of buildings including water supply, sewerage, and heating

and lighting plants; the purchase or lease of lands; the purchase or

construction of irrigation systems for the irrigation of such school or

agency lands; and for the equipment of all such plants for the promotion of industrial education, including agricultural implements, live

stock, and the equipment for shops, laundries, and domestic science; (2) the physical condition of such plants and their equipment; (3) an estimate of expenditures necessary for (a) new buildings, (b) improve-

ments, equipment and repairs necessary for the upkeep of such plants; and (4) a statement of the quantity and market value of the products derived from the operation of such plants for the fiscal year nineteen
Recommendation hundred and eleven and the disposition of the same. The Secretary on continuance, etc. of the Interior shall accompany such report with a recommendation

Transporting, pupils.

supported by a statement of his reasons therefor as to the necessity or advisability of continuing or discontinuing each such school or agency plant. etc., For collection and transportation of pupils to and from Indian schools, and for the transportation of Indian pupils from any and all Indian schools and placing them, with the consent of their parents,

under the care and control of white families qualified to give such

Proviso.

pupils moral, industrial, and educational training, eighty-two thousand dollars: Provided, That not to exceed five thousand dollars of

Positions forpupils. this amount may be used in the transportation and placing of Indian

pupils in positions where remunerative employment may be found

for them in industrial pursuits. The provisions of this section shall

also apply to native pupils of school age under twenty-one years of

age brought from Alaska.

No per capita restriction.

All moneys appropriated herein for school purposes among the

Indians may be expended , without restriction as to per capita expendi-

ture, for the annual support and education of any one pupil în any school.

Agricultural experiments.

To conduct experiments on Indian school or agency farms designed

Care of forests.

to test the possibilities of soil and climate in the cultivation of trees, grains, vegetables, and fruits, for the purposes of preserving living

Provisos. Restriction .

and growing timber on Indian reservations and allotments, and to advise the Indians as to the proper care of forests : Provided, That

Matrons.

this shall not, as to timber, apply to the Menominee Indian Reservation in Wisconsin or the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Minnesota;
for the employment of suitable persons as matrons to teach Indian

women housekeeping and other household duties, and for furnishing

necessary equipments and renting quarters for them where necessary; meFnar. mers and stock- for the employment of practical farmers and stockmen, in addition
to the agency and school farmers now employed ; and to superintend

Testing soils, etc.

and direct farming and stock raising among Indians, four hundred
thousand dollars : Providedfurther, That not to exceed five thousand dollars of the amount herein appropriated shall be used to conduct

experiments on Indian school or agency farms to test the possibilities of soil and climate in the cultivation of trees, grains, vegetables, and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

1061

Amounts to mafruits: Provided, also, That the amounts paid to matrons, farmers, and trons, etc.
stockmen herein provided for shall not be included within the limita- Vol. 30, p. 90.

tion on salaries and compensation of employees contained in the Act of June seventh, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven: Provided still coAunntn.ual cost ac-

further, That hereafter the Secretary of the Interior shall transmit to Congress annually on the first Monday in December a cost account

for the preceding fiscal year relating to the use of appropriations made

for the purposes herein provided for.

For the purchase of goods and supplies for the Indian service,

Supplies. expensesof pur-

including inspection, pay of necessary employees, and all other chase, etc.

expenses connected therewith, including advertising, storage, and

transportation of Indian goods and supplies, two hundred and

eighty-five thousand dollars:

For general expenses for telegraphing and telephoning in the

Telegraphing, etc. Proviso.

Indian service, fourteen thousand dollars: Provided, That the amount Use forgeneral tele-

appropriated in the Indian appropriation Act approved April fourth, gcrurarpehnitngy,eare.tc., for nineteen hundred and ten for telegraphing and telephoning in con- Ante, p. 272.

nection with the purchase of goods and supplies for the Indian service,

is hereby made available to cover all general expenses for telegraphing

and telephoning in the Indian service that have been or may be

incurred during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven.

For

witness

fees

and

other

legal

expenses

incurred

in

suits

instituted

Legal expenses suits involving

in al-

in behalf of or against Indians involving the question of title to lands lotted lands, etc. allotted to them, or the right of possession of personal property held Proviso. by them, two thousand five hundred dollars : Provided, That no No attorney fees.
part of this appropriation shall be used in the payment of attorney fees.
For expenses of the Board of Indian Commissioners, four thousand Citizen commission.

dollars, including not to exceed three hundred dollars for office rent.

For payment of necessary interpreters, eight thousand dollars.

Interpreters.

For payment of Indian police, including chiefs of police at not to

exceed fifty dollars per month each, and privates at not to exceed

thirty dollars per month each, to be employed in maintaining order,

and for the purchase of equipments and rations for policemen at

nonration agencies, two hundred thousand dollars. For compensation of judges of Indian courts, twelve thousand coJuurtds.ges, Indian
dollars.

For contingencies of the Indian service; for traveling and inci- Contingencies. dental expenses of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and other

officers and employees in the Indian service, including clerks detailed from the Bureau of Indian Affairs for special service in the field;
for traveling and incidental expenses of special agents, at three dollars per day when actually employed on duty in the field, exclusive of transportation and sleeping-car fare, in lieu of all other expenses, including expenses of going to and from the seat of government and while remaining there under orders; for pay of employees not otherwise provided for; and for pay of special agents, at two thousand dollars per annum each, one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars.
There is hereby appropriated the sum of thirty thousand dollars, inEgncionudruasgtirnygafmaornmg-

or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be immediately available, Indians. for the purpose of encouraging industry among Indians, and to aid

them to engage in the culture of fruits, grains, and other crops. The

said sum may be used for the purchase of animals, machinery, tools, implements, and other agricultural equipment: Provided, That the
sum hereby appropriated shall be expended subject to the conditions to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior for its repayment to the United States, on or before June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eighteen, and all repayments to this fund made on or before June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seventeen are hereby

PRreopviasyomsent. Reuse of fund.

appropriated for the same purpose as the original fund, and the

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11- -69

1062

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.210. 1911.

entire fund, including such repayments, shall remain available until June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seventeen, and all repayments

Detailed report.

to the fund hereby created which shall be made subsequent to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seventeen, shall be covered into the Treasury and shall not be withdrawn or applied except in consequence of a subsequent appropriation made by law: Provided further, That the

Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress annually on the

Osage civilization first Monday in December a detailed report of the use of this fund :

fund covered into Provided still further, That the Secretary of the Interior shall close

the Treasury. Vol. 14, p. 687.

the account known as the civilization fund created by article one

of the treaty with the Osage Indians, dated September twenty-

ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five (Fourteenth Statutes at

Large, page six hundred and eighty-seven), and cause the balance of any unexpended moneys in that fund to be covered into the Treas-

Supplying insuffi- ury, and thereafter it shall not be withdrawn or applied except in cientfunds repealed. consequence of a subsequent appropriation by law; and that section peVaolled. . 50, p. 93, re- eleven of the Indian appropriation Act for the fiscal year eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, approved June seventh, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven (Thirtieth Statutes at Large, page ninety- three) , is hereby repealed.

Arizona.

ARIZONA AND NEW MEXICO.

diSaunpspoonrtr,esetecr.v,aotfioInns-. SEC. 2. For support and civilization of Indians on reservations in

Arizona and New Mexico, three hundred and thirty thousand dollars. Gila River Reserva-

tion.

For continuing the work of constructing an irrigation system for

Irrigation system. the irrigation of the lands of the Pima Indians in the vicinity of

Sacaton, in the Gila River Indian Reservation, one hundred and

twenty-five thousand dollars. Fort Mojave school. For support and education of two hundred Indian pupils at the

Indian school at Fort Mojave, and for pay of superintendent, thirty-

five thousand one hundred dollars ; for general repairs and improve-

ments, four thousand dollars ; in all, thirty-nine thousand onê hun-

Phoenix school.

dred dollars. For support and education of seven hundred Indian pupils at the

Indian school at Phoenix, Arizona, and for pay of superintendent,

one hundred nineteen thousand four hundred dollars ; for general

repairs and improvements, eight thousand dollars ; in all, one hun-

dred twenty-seven thousand four hundred dollars.

Truxton Canyon

school.

For support and education of one hundred pupils at the Indian

school at Truxton Canyon, Arizona, and for pay of superintendent,

eighteen thousand two hundred dollars ; for general repairs and

improvements, three thousand dollars ; in all, twenty-one thousand

two hundred dollars.

Navajo Reservation. Bridge, Tanner's

For constructing a bridge across the Little Colorado River on the

Crossing.

Navajo Reservation, at or near Tanner's Crossing, Arizona, ninety

thousand dollars.

Rio Grande. Bridges at Indian

For constructing two bridges across the Rio Grande River, one at

pueblos.

or near the Isleta Indian pueblo, New Mexico, and the other at or

Proviso. Indian labor.

near San Felipe Indian pueblo, New Mexico, fifty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That Indian labor shall be employed as far as practicable in the building of said bridges, and that the limit of cost

herein fixed in no event shall be exceeded.

California.

CALIFORNIA.

Support, etc., of In-

dians.

SEO. 3. For support and civilization of Indians in California,

including pay of employees, and for the purchase of small tracts of

land situated adjacent to lands heretofore purchased, and for improve-

ments on lands for the use and occupancy of Indians in California,

fifty-seven thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

1063

For support and education of five hundred and fifty Indian pupils Sherman Institute. at the Sherman Institute, Riverside, California, and for pay of superintendent, ninety-four thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ; for new shop building and equipment, ten thousand dollars ; for
general repairs and improvements, ten thousand dollars ; in all, one hundred fourteen thousand three hundred and fifty dollars.
The first proviso in section twenty-five of the Indian appropriationRiYvuermRaesaenrdvaCtoilonrsa.do Act, approved April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and four (Thirty- Vol. 33, p. 224. third Statutes, page two hundred and twenty-four), is hereby amended Provisos. so that the first sentence in said proviso shall read as follows : "Pro- Allotment of irrivided, That there shall be reserved for and allotted to each of the gablelands increased. Indians belonging on the said reservations ten acres of the irrigable Costadvanced. lands;" and there is hereby appropriated the sum of eighteen thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to defray
the cost of the irrigation of the increased allotments, for the fiscal Reimbursement. year nineteen hundred and twelve: Provided, That the entire cost of irrigation of the allotted lands shall be reimbursed to the United States from any funds received from the sale of the surplus land's of the reservations or from any other funds that may become available Advances a lien on for such purpose: Provided further, That in the event any allottee allotment, shall receive a patent in fee to an allotment of land irrigated under this project, before the United States shall have been wholly reimbursed as herein provided, then the proportionate cost of the project to be apportioned equitably by the Secretary of the Interior, shall become a first lien on such allotment, and the fact of such lien shall be recited on the face of each patent in fee issued and the amount of the lien set forth thereon, which said lien, however, shall not be enforced so long as the original allottee, or his heirs, shall actually occupy the allotment as a homestead, and the receipt of the Secretary Satisfaction.
of the Interior or of the officer, agent, or employee duly authorized by him for that purpose, for the payment of the amount assessed against any allotment as herein provided shall, when duly recorded by the recorder of deeds in the county wherein the land is located, operate as a satisfaction of such lien.

FLORIDA.

Florida

SEC. 4.

For relief of distress among the Seminole Indians in Florida,

Relief, etc., ofSeminoles

and for purposes of their civilization, ten thousand dollars.

IDAHO.

Idaho.

Fort Hall ReservaSEO. 5. For support and civilization of the Shoshones, Bannocks , tion. Sheepeaters, and other Indians on the Fort Hall Reservation in Idaho, diSaunpsp. ort, etc., of In-
including pay of employees, thirty thousand dollars.

To complete the work of constructing an irrigating system for the Irrigating system.

irrigation of lands on the Fort Hall Reservation, Idaho, and lands

ceded by the Indians of said reservation, eighty-five thousand dol-

lars, including ten thousand dollars for maintenance, to be immediately available.

For fulfilling treaty stipulations with the Bannocks in Idaho : For FBualnfnilolciknsg.treaty.

pay of physician, teacher, carpenter, miller, engineer, farmer, and Vol. 15, p. 676.

blacksmith (article ten, treaty of July third, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight), five thousand dollars.
For the Coeur d'Alenes, in Idaho : For pay of blacksmith, carpen-
ter, and physician, and purchase of medicines (article eleven, agree-

Coeur d'Alenes. fulfillingtreaty. Vol . 26, p. 1029.

ment ratified March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one) , three thousand dollars.

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to cause allot- tiFoon.rt Hall Reservaments to be made of the lands on the Fort Hall Indian Reservation

in Idaho in areas as follows : To each head of a family whose consort

1064

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

gaAbllleotamnedntgroafziIrnrig is dead, forty acres of irrigable land and three hundred and twenty Lands.
acres of grazing land, and to each other Indian belonging on the

reservation or having rights thereon, twenty acres of irrigable land

Timberfordomestic and one hundred and sixty acres of grazing land.

use ofIndians.

That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to set aside

and reserve so much of the timber land of the Fort Hall Reservation-

as he may deem necessary to provide timber for the domestic use of scLhoaonld,setcf.o,rpuargpeonsceys,. the Indians, not exceeding in aggregate two townships of land ; and
the said Secretary is hereby authorized to set aside and reserve such lands as may be necessary for agency, school, and religious purposes,

Stone quarries.

not exceeding in aggregate one thousand two hundred and eighty acres of land for agency and school purposes and one hundred and sixty acres for any one religious society, to remain reserved so long as agency, school, or religious institutions are maintained thereon; and the said Secretary is hereby authorized to set aside and reserve certain

lands chiefly valuable for the stone quarries situated thereon, not

to exceed in aggregate three hundred and twenty acres of land;

LOepaesreastianugthfoorribzeende. - and authority is hereby granted the said Secretary to lease said stone

fit of Indians.

quarries, or, in his discretion, to operate said quarries for the benefit

of the Indians of the Fort Hall Reservation and to sell, the stone

quarried therefrom, the net proceeds derived from said quarries to be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit

of said Indians and expended for their benefit in such manner as

Allotments in graz. the said Secretary may prescribe.

ing reserve.

That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized in his dis-

cretion to make allotments as herein provided within the "Fort Hall

Bottoms" grazing reserve to those Indians who have occupied and

erected valuable improvements on tracts therein.

Former restrictions repealed.

That so much of the Act of February twenty-third, eighteen hun-

Vol. 25, p. 699. dred and eighty-nine, entitled " An Act to accept and ratify the

agreement submitted by the Shoshones, Bannocks, and Sheepeaters,

Ante, p. 275.

of the Fort Hall and Lemhi Reservations, in Idaho, May fourteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other purposes," and the pro-

vision in section seven of the Indian appropriation Act approved

April fourth, nineteen hundred and ten, as conflict with the provisions

herein are hereby repealed ."

Kansas.

KANSAS .

Haskell Institute. SEC. 6. For support and education of seven hundred and fifty

Indian pupils at the Indian school, Haskell Institute, Lawrence,

Kansas, and for pay of superintendent, one hundred twenty-seven

thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; for general repairs and

improvements, ten thousand dollars ; in all, one hundred thirty-seven

thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Kickapoo Reservation school.

For support and education of eighty Indian pupils at the Indian

school, Kickapoo Reservation, Kansas, and for pay of superintend-

ent, fourteen thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars; for general

repairs and improvements, three thousand dollars; in all, seventeen

thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars.

Sacs and Foxes of the Missouri.

For fulfilling treaties with the Sacs and Foxes of the Missouri: For

School.

support of a school (article five, treaty of March sixth, eighteen hun-

Vol. 12, p. 1172. dred and sixty-one) , two hundred dollars.

Michigan.

MICHIGAN.

Mount Pleasant

schooi .

SEC. 7. For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils

at the Indian school, Mount Pleasant, Michigan, and for pay of super-

intendent, fifty-one thousand eight hundred dollars ; for new lava-

tories, four thousand dollars ; for new dormitory, fifteen thousand

dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, five thousand dollars; in all, seventy-five thousand eight hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911. MINNESOTA.

1065 Minnesota.

SEO. 8. For support and education of two hundred and twenty-five Pipestone school.

Indian pupils at the Indian school, Pipestone, Minnesota, and for pay of superintendent, thirty-nine thousand one hundred and seventy-

five dollars; for, general repairs and improvements, two thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, forty-one thousand six hundred and seventyfive dollars.

For support of a school or schools for the Chippewas of the Missis- MiCsshiispspipepwia. s of the

sippi in Minnesota (article three, treaty of March nineteenth, eighteen

Schools Vol. 16, p. 720.

hundred and sixty-seven), four thousand dollars.

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to withdraw neCshotiap.pewas of Min-

-from the Treasury of the United States, at his discretion, the sum of

Civilization, etc. Vol. 25, p. 645.

one hundred and sixty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as

may be necessary, of the principal sum on deposit to the credit of the

Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota, arising under section seven of the Act of January fourteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-

nine, entitled " An Act for the relief and civilization of the Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota," and to use the same for the pur-

pose of promoting civilization and self-support among the said

Indians in manner and for purposes provided for in said Act.

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to adyance to the WFhuintdefEoarrathnnBaunadl, executive committee of the White Earth band of Chippewa Indians in celebration.

Minnesota.the sum of one thousand dollars, or so much thereof as

may be necessary, to be expended in the annual celebration of said

band to be held June fourteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, out of

the funds belonging to said band.

Yankton Sioux,

There is hereby appropriated the sum of five thousand dollars, or so 8.Dak

much thereof as may be necessary, to be immediately available, for ,laCnodsstisnoMfinsnueistotfa.or the purpose of defraying the costs and expenses, including the com- Ante, p. 291.

pensation of counsel, in the proceedings authorized to be brought in

the Court of Claims by provisions in section twenty-two of the Indian

appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, approved April fourth, nineteen hundred and ten, between the United

States and the Yankton Tribe of Indians of South Dakota, to deter-

mine the interest, title, ownership and right of possession of said tribe

of Indians in and to certain lands and premises therein described. That the last clause of section ten of the Indian appropriation. Act

approved April fourth, nineteen hundred and ten, be amended so as

to read as follows: Clearwater River.
" To enable the Secretary of the Interior to construct a bridge on Bridge on old Red

the old Red Lake Agency Road across Clearwater River in township LaSkiteeAcgheancgeydR.oad.

one hundred and fifty, north of range thirty-seven, west of the fifth Ante, p. 276, amend-

principal meridian, one thousand dollars, to be available until ed.

expended."

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed to withdraw from

White Earth Band. Expenses of mem-

the Treasury of the United States the sum of two thousand five tbeorns. sent to Washing-

hundred dollars, or , so much thereof as may be necessary of the

principal sum on deposit to the credit of the Chippewa Indians in the Vol. 25, p. 645.
State of Minnesota, arising under section seven of the Act of January

fourteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, entitled "An Act for

the relief and civilization of the Chippewa Indians in the State of

Minnesota," to pay the actual and necessary expenses ofthe members

of the White Earth Band of Indians sent bya council of said Indians

held December tenth, nineteen hundred and ten, to represent said

band in Washington during the third session of the Sixty-first Con-

gress, which expense shall be itemized and verified under oath by Chief Wain-che-mah-dub, of said delegation.

1066

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 .

Montana.

MONTANA.

Fort Belknap Agen-

cy.

SEO. 9. For support and civilization of the Indians at Fort Belknap

InSduiapnps.ort, etc., of Agency, Montana, including pay of employees, fifteen thousand dollars.

Flathead Agency.

Support , etc., of For support and civilization of Indians at Flathead Agency, Mon-

Indians.

tana, including pay of employees, nine thousand dollars."

Fort Peck Agency, Support, etc., of

For support and civilization of the Indians at Fort Peck Agency,

Indians.

Montana, including pay of employees, thirty-five thousand dollars.

vaFtoirotn.Belknap Reser- For the Milk River irrigation system on the Fort Belknap Reser-

Irrigation. Provisos.

vation, in Montana, fifteen thousand dollars : Provided, That the por-

Repayment.

tion of the cost of this project paid from public funds shall be repaid

into the Treasury of the United States as and when funds may be

alAldovtmaennctess. a lien on available therefor : Provided further, That in the event any allottee

shall feceive a patent in fee to an allotment of land irrigated under

this project, before the United States shall have been wholly reimbursed as herein provided, then the proportionate cost of the project

to be apportioned. equitably by the Secretary of the Interior, shall

become a first lien on such allotment, and the fact of such lien shall

be recited on the face of each patent in fee issued and the amount of the lien set forth thereon, which said lien, however, shall not be

Satisfaction .

enforced so long as the original allottee or his heirs shall actually occupy the allotment as a homestead; and the receipt of the Secre tary of the Interior, or of the officer, agent, or employee duly authorized by him for that purpose, for the payment of the amount assessed

against any allotment as herein provided shall, when duly recorded

by the recorder of deeds in the county wherein the land is located , operate as a satisfaction of such lien.

Flathead Reservation.

For the construction of irrigation systems to irrigate the allotted

Irrigation.

lands of the Indians of the Flathead Reservation, in Montana, and

the unallotted irrigable lands to be disposed of under authority of

law, including the necessary surveys, plans, and estimates, four hun-

dred thousand dollars.

Blackfeet Reservation.

For ccntinuing construction of first unit of irrigation system to

CIrornisgtartuicotnisnygstfeimr.st irrigate the allotted lands of the Indians of the Blackfeet Indian Res-

unit.

ervation in Montana and the unallotted irrigable lands to be disposed

of under authority of law, including the necessary surveys, plans, and

Crows. Fulfilling treaty.
Vol. 15, p. 652.

estimates, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. For fulfilling treaties with Crows, Montana: For pay of physician,
one thousand two hundred dollars, and for pay of carpenter, miller, engineer, farmer, and blacksmith (article ten, treaty of May seventh,

eighteen hundred and sixty-eight), three thousand six hundred dol-

lars; for pay of second blacksmith (article eight, same treaty) , one

thousand two hundred dollars ; in all, six thousand dollars.

Northern Cheyennes.

For subsistence and civilization (agreement with the Sioux Indians,

Subsistence, etc. approved February twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and seventyVol. 19, p. 256.

seven) , including subsistence and civilization of Northern Cheyennes

Physician, etc. Vol. 15, p. 658.

removed from Pine Ridge Agency to Tongue River, Montana, ninety thousand dollars ; for pay of physician, two teachers, two carpenters, one miller, two farmers, a blacksmith, and engineer (article seven,

treaty of May tenth , eighteen hundred and sixty-eight) , nine thou-

sand dollars ; in all, ninety-nine thousand dollars.

Employing "line

riders.'

For the employment of" line riders " along the southern and eastern

boundaries of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation in the State

of Montana, one thousand five hundred dollars.
Flathead Lake. Easement reserved In the issuance of patents for all tracts of land bordering upon Flatfor water power. head Lake, Montana, it shall be incorporated in the patent that "this

conveyance is subject to an easement of one hundred linear feet back

from a contour of elevation nine feet above the high-water mark of the year nineteen hundred and nine of Flathead Lake, to remain in the

Government for purposes, connected with the development of water power. "

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 110. 1911 ,

1067 ·

NEBRASKA.
SEO. 10. For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils at the Indian school at Genoa, Nebraska, and for pay of superintendent, fifty-two thousand one hundred dollars; for repairs to present heating plant, five thousand dollars, to be immediately available; for two new dormitories, thirty-five thousand dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, three thousand dollars ; in all, ninetyfive thousand one hundred dollars.

Nebraska. Genoa school.

NEVADA.

Nevada.

SEO.

11.

For

support

and

civilization

of

the

Indians

of

the

Western

Western : Agency.

Shoshone

Shoshone Agency, Nevada, including pay of employees, eight thou- Support, etc., of

Indians.

sand dollars.

Carson school:

For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils at the

Indian school at Carson City, Nevada, and for pay of superintendent,

fifty thousand one hundred dollars; for general repairs and improve-

ments, six thousand dollars; in all, fifty-six thousand one hundred dollars:

Forsupport and civilization of other Indians, in the State of Nevada, support, etc., of six thousand five hundred dollars; for pay of employees, including other Indians.

physician, at the Walker River Reservation, four thousand dollars;

in all, ten thousand five hundred dollars.

NEW MEXICO..

New Mexico.

SEC. 12. For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils Albuquerqueschool. at the Indian school at Albuquerque, New Mexico, and for pay of
superintendent, fifty-one thousand nine hundred dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, nine thousand dollars ; for new dormitory for boys, twenty-five thousand dollars ; in all, eighty-five thousand nine hundred dollars.

For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils at the Santa Fe school. Indian school at Santa Fe, NewMexico, and for pay of superintendent,

fifty-one thousand nine hundred dollars ; for general repairs and im-

provements, five thousand dollars; for water supply, one thousand six hundred dollars ; in all, fifty-eight thousand five hundred dollars.

For pay of one special attorney for the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, one thousand five hundred dollars ; for necessary traveling toPruneebylo Indians, at- .

and incidental expenses of said attorney, five hundred dollars ; in all, two thousand dollars.

NEW YORK.

New York.

" SEC. 13. For fulfilling treaties with Senecas of New York: For permanent annuity in lieu of interest on stock (Act of February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and thirty-one), six thousand dollars . For fulfilling treaties with Six Nations of New York: For permanent annuity, in clothing and other useful articles (article six, treaty of November eleventh, seventeen hundred and ninety-four), four thousand five hundred dollars.
NORTH CAROLINA.

SAennneuciatsy,. Vol. 4, p. 442. Six Nations. Annalty. Vol. 4, p. 46.
North Carolina.

SEO. 14. For support and education of one hundred and eighty Indian pupils at the Indian school at Cherokee, North Carolina, and for pay of superintendent, twenty-six thousand six hundred and fifty dollars; for general repairs and improvements, two thousand dollars; in all, twenty-eight thousand six hundred and fifty dollars.

Cherokee school.

1068

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

North Dakota.

NORTH DAKOTA.

Devils Lake Sioux.

Support, etc.

SEO. 15. For support and civilization of the Sioux of Devils Lake,

North Dakota, five thousand dollars.

Fort Berthold

Agency.

For support and civilization of Indians at Fort Berthold Agency,

InSduipapnosr. t, eettcc..,, of in North Dakota, including pay of employees, fifteen thousand dollars.

Turtle Mountain Chippewas.

For support and civilization of Turtle Mountain Band of Chip-

Support, etc.

pewas, North Dakota, thirteen thousand dollars.

Fort Totten school. For support and education of four hundred Indian pupils at Fort

Totten Indian School, Fort Totten, North Dakota, and for pay of

superintendent, sixty-eight thousandfivehundred dollars ; for hospital,

five thousand dollars ; for dairy barn, silo, and equipment, three thou-

sand five hundred dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, five

Wahpeton school. thousand dollars ; in all, eighty-two thousand dollars. For support and education of one hundred Indian pupils at the

Indian school, Wahpeton, North Dakota, and pay of superintendent,

eighteen thousand two hundred dollars ; for general repairs and

Bismarck school.

improvements, two thousand dollars ; additions to dormitories, thirty thousand dollars ; in all, fifty thousand two hundred dollars.
For support and education of one hundred Indian pupils at the Indian school, Bismarck, North Dakota, and for pay of superin-

tendent, eighteen thousand two hundred dollars; for general repairs

and improvements, two thousand dollars ; in all, twenty thousand

two hundred dollars . Purchase of water.
For the purchase of water and irrigation for the growing of trees,

Standing Rock Res- shrubs, and garden truck, two thousand five hundred dollars.

ervation.

Any licensed trader on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation

trCaldearismsagoafinlsitcenIsne-d in North Dakota, who has any claim against any Indian of said

dians on, to be filed Reservation for goods sold to such Indian, may file an itemized state-

with superintendent. ment of said claim with the Indian superintendent. Said superin-

tendent shall forthwith notify said Indian in writing of the filing of

said claim and request him to appear within a reasonable time, to be

Hearings.

fixed in said notice, and present any objections he may have to the payment thereof, or any offset or any counterclaim thereto..
If said Indian appears and contests said claim, or any item therein,

the said superintendent shall notify the said trader and fix a time for

a meeting of the parties thereto, and shall on a hearing thereof use

his efforts to secure an agreement as to the amount due between the

said parties. If the said Indian shall not appear within the time specified in the notice, the superintendent shall call in the said trader

and carefully investigate every item of said account and ascertain coSutnta.tement of ac- the amount due thereon. Any account so ascertained by the superin-
tendent or any account admitted by the Indian shall be and remain

an account stated between the parties thereto.

Moneys for Indians to be paid at agency.

That any moneys which shall thereafter become due to said Indian,

by reason of any annuity or other indebtedness from the Govern-

ment of the United States, or for property sold by or on account of

such Indian, and which shall be under the control of the Secretary of

Agent to use good the Interior, or any agent or superintendent, shall be paid such Indian offices tohaveaccount only at the Agency headquarters. And it shall be the duty of such settled.
agent or superintendent to use his influence, advice and good offices,
to the end that such Indian shall as rapidly as his means shall permit,
pay the said account stated.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 . OKLAHOMA.

1069 Oklahoma.

SEO. 16. For support and civilization of the Wichitas and affiliated WSiucphpiotra'ts, ,etect.c. bands who have been collected on the reservations set apart for their use and occupation in Oklahoma, five thousand dollars.
The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to withdraw anKdioAwpaasc,hCeosm. anches, from the Treasury of the United States, at his discretion; the sum of etPc.aymentforagency, twenty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, of the funds on deposit to the credit of the Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache tribes of Indians in Oklahoma, for the support of the agency and pay of employees maintained for their benefit."
That the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, is authorized etSc.a,lleanodfs,unallotted, to sell, upon such terms and under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, the unused; unallotted and unreserved lands of the
United States in the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Reservations. For support and civilization of the Arapahoes and Cheyennes who sAurpapporatheotec.s and
have been collected on the reservations set apart for their use and cheyennes. occupation in Oklahoma, thirty-five thousand dollars.
For support and civilization of the Kansas Indians, Oklahoma, Kansas Indians. including agricultural assistance and pay of employees, one thousand five hundred dollars.

For support and civilization of the Kickapoo Indians in Oklahoma, Kickapoos. two thousand dollars.

For support and civilization of the Ponca Indians in Oklahoma, Poncas. including pay of employees, eight thousand dollars.

For support and education of five hundred Indian pupils at the Indian school at Chilocco, Oklahoma, and for pay of superintendent, eighty-three thousand five hundred dollars; for general repairs and
improvements, six thousand five hundred dollars; in all, ninety thousand dollars.

Chilocco school.

For fulfilling treaties with Pawnees, Oklahoma: For perpetual PAnanwunieteys. annuity, to be paid in cash to the Pawnees (article three, agreement . Vol. 27,p. 644.
of November twenty-third, eighteen hundred and ninety-two), thirty
thousand dollars ; for support of two manual-labor schools (article SVcohlo. o1l1,sp. 730. three, treaty of September twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and Farmer, blackfifty-seven), ten thousand dollars ; for pay of one farmer, two blacksmiths, etc.
smiths, one miller, one engineer and apprentices, and two teachers Vol. 11, p. 730. (article four, same treaty), five thousand four hundred dollars; for Iron and steel.
purchase of iron and steel and other necessaries for the shops (article
four, same treaty) , five hundred dollars; for pay of physician and Physician, etc.-
purchase of medicines, one thousand two hundred dollars ; in all,forty-seven thousand one hundred dollars.
Quapaws. For support of Quapaws, Oklahoma: For education (article three, Education. treaty of May thirteenth, eighteen hundred and thirty-three) , one Vol. 7, p. 425. thousand dollars; for blacksmith and assistants, and tools, iron and Blacksmith,etc. steel for blacksmith shop (same article and treaty), five hundred dol- Proviso. lars; in all, one thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That the certificate of PreslPresident of the United States shall certify the same to be for the dent. best interests of the Indians.

FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES.

Five Civilized Tribes.

SEO. 17. For expense of administration of the affairs of the Five Administration expenses.
Civilized Tribes, Oklahoma, including the salary of superintendent at not to exceed four thousand five hundred dollars per annum, and
the compensation of all employees, one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.
That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized apEpmropvlaolyoefeSetcorestiagrny to designate an employee or employees of the Department of the doefedIsn,teetrci.or to tribal Interior to sign, under the direction of the Secretary, in his name
and for him, his approval of tribal deeds to allottees, to purchasers

1070

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

of town lots, to purchasers of unallotted lands, to persons, corpora-

tions, or organizations for lands reserved to them under the law for

their use and benefit, and to any tribal deeds made and executed
according to law for any of the Five Civilized Tribes of Indians in Oklahoma. District agents, etc. For salaries and expenses of district agents for the Five Civilized

Choctaws. Fulfilling treaties. Annuities. Vol. 7, p. 99. Vol. 11, p. 614. Light horsemen. Vol. 7, p. 213. Vol. 11, p. 614.
Blacksmith .
Vol 7. pp. 235, 236. Vol. 11, p. 614.
Education. Vol. 7, p. 235. Vol. 11, p. 614.
Iron and steel. Vol. 7, p. 236. Vol. 11, p. 614.

Tribes in Oklahoma and other employees connected with the work of such agents, one hundred thousand dollars.
For fulfilling treaties with Choctaws, Oklahoma : For permanent annuity (article two, treaty of November sixteenth, eighteen hundred and five, and article thirteen, treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five), three thousand dollars ; for permanent annu-
ity for support of light horsemen (article thirteen, treaty of October eighteenth, eighteen hundred and twenty, and article thirteen, treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five), six hundred dollars ; for permanent annuity for support of blacksmith (article six, treaty of October eighteenth, eighteen hundred and twenty, and article nine, treaty of January twentieth, eighteen hundred and twentyfive, and article thirteen, treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five) , six hundred dollars ; for permanent annuity for education (article two, treaty of January twentieth, eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and article thirteen, treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five), six thousand dollars ; for permanent annuity for iron and steel (article nine, treaty of January twentieth, eighteen hundred and twenty-five, and article thirteen, treaty of June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five), three hundred and twenty dollars; in all, ten thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

That tribal contracts which are necessary to the administration of

Choctaws Chickasaws. and the affairs of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes of Indians may be

Tribal contracts. made by the Secretary of the Interior : Provided , That contracts for

Proviso.

professional legal services of attorneys may be made by the tribes for

For legal services.

a stipulated amount and period, in no case exceeding one year in dura-

Limit.

tion and five thousand dollars per annum in amount, with reasonable

and necessary expenses to be approved and paid under the direction

deAnptp. roved by Prest of the Secretary of the Interior, but such contracts for legal services

tribal shall not be of any validity until approved by the President.

Deposit of funds.

The net receipts from the sales of surplus and unallotted lands and

other tribal property belonging to any of the Five Civilized Tribes,

after deducting the necessary expense of advertising and sale, may be deposited in national or State banks in the State of Oklahoma in the

discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, such depositories to be des-

Designation of ignated by him under such rules and regulations governing the rate

banks, etc.

of interest thereon, the time of deposit and withdrawal thereof, and

the security therefor, as he may prescribe. The interest accruing on

Use of interest. such funds may be used to defray the expense of the per capita pay-

ments of such funds.

J. Blair Schoenfelt. Claim against, re-

That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized

mitted .

and directed to remit the claim of the United States against J. Blair

Repayment.

Schoenfelt, late United States Indian agent, Union Agency, Oklahoma, and the Secretary of the Treasury is further authorized and

directed to pay to J. Blair Schoenfelt the sum of three thousand five

hundred and seventy-eight dollars and sixty-three cents, being the

amount he has paid to the United States, and the Secretary of the Treasury is further authorized and directed to place to the credit of the proper Indian funds the sum of three thousand seven hundred and

two dollars and seventy-four cents.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 . OREGON.

1071 Oregon.

SEO. 18. For support and civilization of the Klamath, Modocs, and KSulpapmoartth, Agetecn.,cy.of

other Indians of the Klamath Agency, Oregon, including pay of Indians.

employees, six thousand dollars.

For support and civilization of the confederated tribes and bands Warm Springs

Agency.

under Warm Springs Agency, and for pay of employees, four thousand Support, etc., of

dollars.

Indians.

For support and civilization of the Wallawalla, Cayuse, and Wallawallas, etc. Umatilla tribes, Oregon, including pay of employees, three thousand Support, etc. dollars.

For support and education of six hundred Indian pupils, including Salem school. native pupils brought from Alaska, at the Indian school, Salem,

Oregon, and for pay of superintendent, one hundred two thousand

two hundred dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, ten

thousand dollars ; for extension of wing of present brick school build-

ing, fifteen thousand dollars ; in all, one hundred twenty-seven thou-

sand two hundred dollars.

For support

and

civilization

of

Indians

of

Grande

Ronde

and

Siletz

Grande Ronde Siletz agencies.

and

agencies, Oregon, including pay of employees, four thousand dollars. InSduipapnosr. t, etc., of For continuing the construction of the Modoc Point irrigation proj- Modoc irrigation

ect, including drainage and canal systems, within the Klamath Indian syCsotnetmi,nuingthrough

Reservation, in the State of Oregon, in accordance with the plans and tKilona.math Reserva specifications submitted by the chief engineer in the Indian Service

and approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior in conformity with a provision in section one of the Antc, p. 270.

Indian appropriation_act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and
eleven, fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That the total cost of this project shall not exceed one hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars,
including the sum of thirty-five thousand one hundred and forty-one dollars and fifty-nine cents expended on this project to June thirtieth,
nineteen hundred and ten, and that the entire cost of the project shall · be repaid into the Treasury of the United States from the proceeds from the sale of timber or lands on the Klamath Indian Reservation.

Proviso. Cost.
Repayment.

PENNSYLVANIA.

Pennsylvania.

SEO. 19. For support and education of Indian pupils at the Indian school at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and for pay of superintendent, one hundred forty-two thousand dollars ; for general repairs and improve-
ments, five thousand dollars ; in all, one hundred forty-seven thousand dollars.
SOUTH DAKOTA.

Carlisle school. South Dakota.

SEO. 20. For support and education of three hundred and seventyfive Indian pupils at the Indian school at Flandreau, South Dakota, and for pay of superintendent, sixty-four thousand four hundred . and twenty-five dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, five thousand dollars ; in all, sixty-nine thousand four hundred and twenty-five dollars.
For support and education of one hundred and seventy-five Indian pupils at the Indian school at Pierre, South Dakota, and for pay of superintendent, thirty-two thousand dollars; to complete irrigation plant, seventeen thousand dollars ; to complete new building, ten thousand dollars; for general repairs and improvements, five thousand dollars ; in all, sixty-four thousand dollars.
For support and education of Indian pupils at the Indian school at Pierre, South Dakota, and for general repairs and improvements, to be immediately available, six thousand dollars.

Flandreau school. Pierre school.

1072

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 .

Rapid City school.

For support and education of three hundred Indian pupils at the Indian school, Rapid City, South Dakota, and for pay of superintendent, fifty-one thousand nine hundred dollars, two thousand dollars of which shall be immediately available; for new dormitory

for girls, twenty thousand dollars; for installation of a central

heating plant, ten thousand dollars; for general repairs and improve-

ments, eight thousand dollars; in all, eighty-nine thousand nine

hundred dollars.

Sioux tribes. · of different For support of Sioux of different tribes, including Santee Sioux

Teachers, etc. Vol. 15, p. 640.

of Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota: For pay of five teachers, one physician, one carpenter, one miller, one engineer,

two farmers, and one blacksmith (article thirteen, treaty of April

twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight), ten thousand four

hundred dollars ; for pay of second blacksmith, and furnishing iron,

Employees.

steel, and other material (article eight of same treaty) , one thousand six hundred dollars; for pay of additional employees at the several

Subsistence, etc. Vol. 19. p. 256..

agencies for the Sioux in Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota, eighty-eight thousand dollars; for subsistence of the Sioux, and for purposes of their civilization (Act of February twenty-eighth,

Proviso. Transportation.

eighteen hundred and seventy-seven), three hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That this sum shall include transpor-

tation of supplies from the termination of railroad or steamboat

Cheyenne River transportation, and in this service Indians shall be employed when-

and Standing Rock ever practicable; and additional to the appropriation of three

reservations. Payment from.tribal

hundred

and

fifty

thousand

dollars

herein

made

for

the

purposes

fundstoIndians on. of civilization, and supplemental thereto, there is hereby appropri-

. ated the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, to be paid

from tribal funds held in trust for the Indians on the Cheyenne

River and Standing Rock Reservations, in South Dakota and North

Vol. 35, p. 464.

Dakota, to be expended for their benefit, as provided for in section six of the Act of May twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and

Schools.

eight; in all, six hundred thousand dollars. For support and maintenance of day and industrial schools among

the Sioux Indians in South Dakota, including the erection and

repairs of school buildings, two hundred thousand dollars, to be

Vol. 15, p. 637. Vol. 25, p. 894.

expended under the agreement with said Indians in section seventeen of the Act of March second, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine,

which agreement is hereby extended to and including June thirtieth,

nineteen hundred and twelve,

Yankton Sioux, subsistence, etc.

For subsistence and civilization of the Yankton Sioux, South

Dakota, fifteen thousand dollars.

Cattan Expenses of insane For the equipment and maintenance of the asylum for insane

asylum.

Indians at Canton, South Dakota, for incidental and all other expenses

necessary for its proper conduct and management, including pay of . employees, and for necessary expense of transporting insane Indians

to and from said asylum, thirty thousand dollars.

Pine RidgeReservation, Bennett County.

· That section eight of an Act entitled "An Act to authorize the sale

Saleofsurpluslands and disposition of the surplus and unallotted lands in Bennett County,

edA.nie, p. 442, amend in the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, in the State of South Dakota,

and making appropriation to carry the same into effect," approved May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

laPnudrschfoarseSoouftshchDooal "SEO. 8. That sections. sixteen and thirty-six of the land in each

kota.

township within the tract described in section one of this Act shall

Price peracre.

not be subject to entry, but shall be reserved for the use of the common schools and paid for by the United States at two dollars and

fifty cents per acre, and the same are hereby granted to the State of

Lieu lands.

South Dakota for such purpose, and in case any of said sections, or parts thereof, are lost to said State by reason of allotments thereof

to any Indian or Indians, or otherwise, the governor of said State,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 ..

1073

with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, is hereby authorized, within the area described in section one of this Act or within the reEsxertveantdioend. to whole
said Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, to locate other lands not other- tiRoens.triction of selecwise appropriated, not exceeding two sections in any one township,

which shall be paid for by the United States as herein provided, in

quantity equal to the loss, and such sele"c"tions shall be made prior to

the opening of such lands to settlement.'

That

section

eight

of an

Act

entitled

"An

Act

to

authorize

the

Reservasale ,tiRono,seMbeuldlette and

and disposition of a portion of the surplus and unallotted lands in Wtiaess.habaugh CounMellette and Washabaugh Counties in the Rosebud Indian Reserva- " Baleofsurpluslands. tion in the State of South Dakota, and making appropriation and pro- Ante, p. 451, amend-

vision to carry the same into effect," approved May thirtieth, nineteen ed. hundred and ten, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
"SEO. 8. That sections sixteen and thirty-six of the land in each laPnudrschfaosreSoouftshchDooal

township within the tract described in section one of this Act shall koPtraice peracre. not be subject to entry, but shall be reserved for the use of the com-
mon schools and paid for by the United States at two dollars and

fifty cents per acre, and the same are hereby granted to the State of South Dakota for such purpose, and in case any of said sections or parts thereof are lost to said State by reason of allotments thereof to

any Indian or Indians, or otherwise, the governor of said State, with Lieu lands.
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, is hereby authorized, within the area described in section one of this Act or within the said reEsexrtveantidoend. to whole Rosebud Indian Reservation, to locate other lands not otherwise tiRoens.trictiononselecappropriated, not exceeding two sections in any one township, which shall be paid for by the United States as herein provided, in quantity
equal to the loss, and such selections shall be made prior to the opening of such lands to settlement."

That the time in which the commission appointed to inspect, clas- clTasismifeicaetxitone,nedtecd. for sify, and appraise the unallotted lands in the counties of Mellette and

Washabaugh, in the Rosebud Indian Reservation in the State of South Dakota under an Act entitled " An Act to authorize the sale nie, p.450.

and disposition of a portion of the surplus and unallotted lands in Mellette and Washabaugh Counties in the Rosebud Indian Reservation in the State of South Dakota, and making appropriation and

provision to carry the same into effect," approved May thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, be, and the same is hereby, extended to

the first day of June, nineteen hundred and eleven, to complete and return the same.

UTAH.

Utah.

SEO. 21. For pay of Indian agent at the Uintah and Ouray Agency AgUeinnctya.h and Ouray

(consolidated), Utah, one thousand eight hundred dollars.

Agent.

For support of Confederated Bands of Utes in Utah: For pay of Utes, Confederated Bands.

two carpenters, two millers, two farmers, and two blacksmiths (article Carpenters, etc.

fifteen, treaty of March second, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight), Vol. 15, p. 622

six thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars ; for pay of two teach-

ers (same article and treaty), one thousand eight hundred dollars ;

for purchase of iron and steel and the necessary tools for blacksmith

shop (article nine, same treaty) , two hundred and twenty dollars; for Food.

annual amount for the purchase of beef, mutton, wheat, flour, beans,

and potatoes, or other necessary articles of food (article twelve, same Employees. treaty), thirty thousand dollars ; for pay of employees at the several

Ute agencies, fifteen thousand dollars ; in all, fifty-three thousand
seven hundred and forty dollars. Relief of distress
For the relief of distress among the Indians of Skull Valley and among Indians.
Deep Creek, and other detached Indians in Utah, and for purposes of

their civilization, ten thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be

necessary, to be immediately available, and the Secretary of the

Interior shall report to Congress, at its next session, the condition of

1074 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 .

the Indians herein appropriated for and the manner in which this

appropriation shall have been expended.

Uncompahgre, Uintah, and White River

For continuing the construction of irrigation systems to irrigate the

Utes. Irrigating

allotted allotted lands of the Uncompahgre, Uintah, and White River Utes, in

lands.

Utah, authorized under the Act of June twenty-first, nineteen hun-

Vol. 34, p. 375. dred and six, to be expended under the terms thereof and reimburs-

Uintah Reservation. able as therein provided, seventy-five thousand dollars. Indian school lot There is hereby granted to the State of Utah upon the terms and
granted to Utah. conditions hereinafter named the following-described property, known

as the Indian school, lot four, block fifty, Randlett town site, former

Uintah Indian Reservation, including the land, buildings, and

Provisos.

Maintenance of fixtures pertaining to said school : Provided, That said land and

school.

buildings shall be held and maintained by the State of Utah as an

institution of learning, and that Indian pupils may at all times be

admitted to such school free of charge for tuition and on terms of

StAatcec. eptance by equality with white pupils : Providedfurther, That this grant shall be effective at any time before July first, nineteen hundred and eleven,

if before that date the governor of Utah files an acceptance thereof

with the Secretary of the Interior accepting for said State said prop-

Homestead settlers erty, upon the terms and conditions herein prescribed . may commute entries, That any person who prior to March first, nineteen hundred and

etc.

nine, made homestead entry for land in the Uintah Indian Reserva-

Vol. 32, pp. 263, 998. tion, in the State of Utah, under the Act of May twenty-seventh,

Vol. 83, pp. 207, 1069. nineteen hundred and two, and Acts supplementary thereto, and

who has not abandoned the same, may make commutation proof therefor, provided such person has fully complied with the provisions Residence required. of the homestead laws as to improvements, and has maintained an actual:bona fide residence upon the land for a period of not less than

eight months and upon payment thereof of one dollar and twenty-five

Proviso. Adverse claims

not

cents per acre:

Providedfurther,

That

nothing contained

herein shall

affected.

affect any valid adverse claim initiated prior to the passage of this Act.

Duchesne River.

Bridge across at To enable the Secretary of the Interior to construct a bridge across

Theodore.

the Duchesne River at or near Theodore, Utah, fifteen thousand

Reimbursement.

dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be reimbursed

to the United States out of the proceeds of the sale of lands within

the ceded Uintah Indian Reservation open to entry under the act of

May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and two, including the sales of lots within the said town site of Theodore.

Virginia. 'Hampton school.
Washington.

VIRGINIA.
SEO. 22. For support and education of one hundred and twenty Indian pupils at the school at Hampton, Virginia, twenty thousand and forty dollars.
WASHINGTON.

Support, etc.

SEC. 23. For support and civilization of the D'Wamish and other

diDanasm. ish, etc., In- allied tribes in Washington, including pay of employees, seven

thousand dollars.

Makahs.

For support and civilization of the Makahs, Washington, including

pay of employees, two thousand dollars.

Qui-nai-elts and

Quil-leh-utes.

For support and civilization of the Qui-nai-elts and Quil-leh-utes,

including pay of employees, one thousand dollars.

Yakimas, etc.

For support and civilization of Yakimas and other Indians at said

agency, including pay of employees, three thousand dollars.

Colville and Puyal- For support and civilization of Indians at Colville and Puyallup

luSpuapgpeonrcti,eestc.., of In- agencies, Washington, and for pay of employees, twelve thousand

dians.

dollars.

Spokanes. Support, etc.

For support of Spokanes in Washington (article six of agreement with said Indians, dated March eighteenth, eighteen hundred and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911 .

· 1075

eighty-seven, ratified by Act of July thirteenth, eighteen hundred Vol. 27, p. 139. and ninety-two) , one thousand dollars.
For construction of brick pavement, concrete curbing, and side- TaCcuosmah.man school, walks on South Twenty-eighth Street in front of the Cushman School Pavement.

grounds at Tacoma, Washington, and in front of tract Numbered
Twenty-two, also belonging to the school, forty thousand dollars, to be reimbursable from the Puyallup four per cent school fund.'
For purchase of agricultural implements, and support and civiliza- PeJrocseesp. h's Band, Nez tion of Joseph's Band of Nez Perce Indians in Washington,, one thousand dollars.

For extension and maintenance of the irrigation system on lands YIarkrigmating allot-

allotted to Yakima Indians in Washington, fifteen thousand dollars: ments.

Provided, That the amount hereby appropriated, and all moneys

Proviso. Repayment.

heretofore or hereafter to be appropriated, for this project shall be

repaid into the Treasury of the United States in accordance with the provisions of the Act of March first, nineteen hundred and seven.

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to investigate Investigation of and to report to Congress at its next session the necessity or advisability of constructing wagon roads on the Yakima Indian Reservation,

the cost thereof to be reimbursed out of the proceeds of the sale of surplus lands of such reservation. If he shall find the construction

of such roads to be necessary or advisable, he shall submit specific
recommendations in respect to the kind of roads to be constructed,.
their location and extent, together with an estimate of cost for the
same. Colville Reserva-
For the fifth and last installment to the Indians on the Colville tion.

Reservation, Washington, for the cession of land opened to settlement by the Act of July first, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, "To provide for the opening of a part of the Colville Reservation in the State of Washington, and for other purposes," being a part

Lastpayment to InVol. 27, p. 62.

of the full sum set aside and held in the Treasury of the United States in payment for said land under the terms of the Act of June Vol. 34, p. 377.

twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six, ratifying the agreement ceding said land to the United States under date of May ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, three hundred thousand dollars, to be expended for the benefit of said Indians in accordance with the provisions of the said Act setting aside in the Treasury the money in payment for the land ceded .

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to sell and convey the ReOslerdvaFtoiornt. Spokane
lands, buildings, and other appurtenances of the old Fort Spokane scShaoloel, oeftc.I, nodni, atno Military Reservation, now used for Indian school purposes, and Washington author adjoining the Colville Reservation, in the State of Washington, Proceeds for new containing approximately six hundred and forty acres, and to use schools. the proceeds thereof not to exceed thirty-five thousand dollars in the establishment and maintenance of such new schools and adminis-

tration of affairs as may be required by the Colville and Spokane Provisos. Indians in said State: Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior Land reserved.
is authorized in his discretion to reserve. from sale or other dis-

position any part of said reservation chiefly valuable for power sites and reservoir sites and land valuable for minerals: Provided further, laSnudrsf.ace on mineral That in the case of land reserved on account of minerals, the Secretary of the Interior may sell the surface under such regulations as he may prescribe: Provided further, That, in the discretion of the Secretary ersaelpsa. ration of minof the Interior, the surface of the lands may be sold separate from any minerals that may be found thereunder.
The Secretary of the Interior shall report to Congress at its next Report to Congress session his action in the premises.

1076

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 210. 1911.

Wisconsin

WISCONSIN.

Hayward school.

SEC. 24. For the support and education of two hundred and ten

Indian pupils at the Indian school at Hayward, Wisconsin, and pay

of superintendent, thirty-six thousand six hundred and seventy

dollars ; for general repairs and improvements, two thousand dollars;

Tomah school.

in all, thirty-eight thousand six hundred and seventy dollars. For support and education of two hundred and fifty Indian pupils
at the Indian school, Tomah, Wisconsin, and for pay of superintend-

ent, forty-three thousand four hundred and fifty dollars; for heating plant and ventilating system, three thousand five hundred dollars;

for general repairs and improvements, three thousand dollars ; in all,

Chippewas of Lake forty-nine thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars.

Superior.

For support and civilization of the Chippewas of Lake Superior,

Support, etc.

Wisconsin, seven thousand dollars.

Pottowatomies.

The appropriation of twenty-five thousand dollars " for support,

prCooprnitaitniuoann. ce of ap- education , and civilization of the Pottowatomie Indians who reside

Ante, p. 288.

in the State of Wisconsin and to investigate their condition," made

in the Indian appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred

and eleven, shall remain available until expended.

Wyoming.

WYOMING.

Shoshones. Support, etc.

SEO. 25. For support and civilization of Shoshone Indians in

Wyoming, twelve thousand dollars.

Shoshone Reservation school.

For support and education of one hundred and seventy-five Indian

:

pupils at the Indian school, Shoshone Reservation, Wyoming, and

for pay of superintendent, thirty-one thousand and twenty-five

dollars; for general repairs and improvements, three thousand dollars ;

Irrigation system.
Shoshanes. Fulfilling treaty. Vol. 15, p. 676.

i.n all, thirty-four thousand and twenty-five dollars.. For continuing the work of constructing an irrigation system
within the diminished Shoshone or Wind River Reservation, in Wyoming, fifty thousand dollars.
For support of Shoshones in Wyoming: For pay of physician, teacher, carpenter, miller, engineer, farmer, and blacksmith (article ten, treaty of July third, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight), five thousand dollars ; for pay of second blacksmith, and such iron and

steel and other materials as may be required, as per article eight,

same treaty, one thousand dollars ; in all, six thousand dollars.

Menominee Reser vation, Wis.

SEC. 26. That upon the passage of this Act the Secretary of the

beDretaodbeancudtdaonwdnmtainm-- Interior be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to cause to be

ufactured.

cut and manufactured into lumber the dead and down timber now

upon the Menominee Indian Reservation in the State of Wisconsin Use ofgreen timber

for logging.

together with such green timber as may be necessary to cut in order

Regulations.

to economically log the dead and down timber, such green timber to be designated and marked by the Forestry Service. For the cutting

of such dead and down timber the Secretary of the Interior shall

Vol. 35,p.51.

prescribe rules and regulations in conformity with the intent and purpose of the Act of March twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and

eight, entitled " An Act to authorize the cutting of timber, the man-
ufacture and sale of lumber, and the preservation of the forests upon larAdadliltoiwoannacle.toregu- the Menominee Indian Reservation in the State of Wisconsin.". The
amount of dead and down timber authorized to be cut under this

section shall be in addition to the amount of green timber authorized

Deduction of green to be cut, in any one year, under the provisions of said Act of March

timber used.

twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and eight. The green timber

authorized to be cut under this section to facilitate the logging of

dead and down timber, and which shall be cut in any one year, shall

be deducted from the amount of green timber authorized to be cut

in that year under the provisions of said Act of March twenty-eighth,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 210, 211. 1911.

1077

nineteen hundred and eight. The total amount of green and dead Maximum allowed.
and down timber which shall be logged under the provisions of this
section and the provisions of said Act of March twenty-eighth, nine-
teen hundred and eight, shall not exceed forty million feet unless the Certification ofFor-
Forestry Service shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that it est Service. is necessary, to save waste and loss on dead and down timber, that

a greater amount of such dead , and down timber shall be cut; in making such certification the Forestry Service shall designate the additional dead and down timber it deems necessary to cut and such designated timber shall be logged as expeditiously as possible. In the logging operations authorized under this section the Secretary of the Interior may cause to be constructed such roads or logging rail- Logging roads. way as may be necessary to bring the logs to the mill with expedition and economy. The expense of the logging operations authorized Expenses. under this section shall be paid in the manner provided in said Act of March twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and eight, authorizing the cutting of timber and the manufacture of lumber upon the Menominee Indian Reservation in the State of Wisconsin..
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs is hereby directed to reopen wiOsnceoindsian.Indians,

negotiations with the Oneida Indians of Wisconsin for the commu- Negotiation for com-
tation of their perpetual annuities under treaty stipulations and muting annuities,
report the same to Congress on the first Monday in December, nineteen hundred and eleven.
SEO. 27. Annually, on the first Monday in December, the Secretary toAbnenumaaldsetaotfefmiennctasl
of the Interior shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Repre- affairs of Indians for sentatives a statement of the fiscal affairs of all Indian tribes for preceding year.

whose benefit expenditures from either..public or tribal funds shall

have been made by any officer, clerk, or employee in the Interior

Department during the preceding fiscal year; and such statement DCerteadiiltss.. shall show (1 ) the total amount of all moneys, from whatever source

derived, standing to the credit of each tribe of Indians, in trust or

otherwise, at the close of such fiscal year; (2) an analysis of such Analysis.

credits, by funds, showing how and when they were created, whether by treaty stipulation, agreement, or otherwise; . (3) the total amount Disbursements.

of disbursements from public or trust funds made on account of each tribe of Indians for such fiscal year; and (4) an analysis of such dis- Analysis. bursements showing the amounts disbursed (a) for per capita pay-

ments in money to Indians, (b) for salaries or compensation of officers

and employees, (c) for compensation of counsel and attorney's fees,

and (d) for support and civilization.

SEO. 28.

Hereafter payments to Indians made from moneys appro-

Judgments to dians.

In-

priated by Congress in satisfaction of the judgment of any court maPdaeybmyeInnttesriotroDbe-e shall be made under the direction of the officers of the Interior Depart- partment

ment charged by law with the supervision of Indian affairs, and all
such payments shall be accounted for to the Treasury in conformity Accounting. with law.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 211.-- An Act Providing for the taking over by the United States Gov- March 8, 1911.

ernment of the confederate cemetery at Springfield, Missouri.

[8. 3501.]

[Public, No. 455.]

: Beitenacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Springfield, Mo. States of America in Congress assembled, That the confederate ceme- Gift of confederate

tery near Springfield, Missouri, and which adjoins the national ceme- ceedm. etery at, accept-

tery at that place, having been tendered by proper authority to the

United States Government, the same is hereby accepted, under the

conditions that the Government shall take care of and properly main-

tain and preserve the cemetery, its monument or monuments, headstones, and other marks of the graves, its walls, gates, and appurte- care, etc. nances; to preserve and keep a record, as far as possible, of the names

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-70

1078

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CS. 211, 212. 1911.

of those buried therein, with such history of each as can be obtained,

and to see that it is never used for any other purpose than as a ceme-

tery for the graves of men who were in the military or naval service

Proviso.

of the Confederate States of America: Provided, That organized

eraUtsees. by ex-Confed- bodies of ex-Confederates or individuals shall have free and unre-

stricted entry to said cemetery for the purposes of burying worthy

ex-Confederates, for decorating the graves, and for all other purposes

which they have heretofore enjoyed, all under proper and reasonable

regulations and restrictions made by the Secretary of War.

Attached to national cemetery.

SEC. 2. That the Secretary of War, under this Act, is directed to

take the necessary steps for the proper transfer of the cemetery to the

Government, and when the same has been duly completed to put it in

charge of the keeper of the national cemetery at Springfield , Missouri,

requiring him to exercise the same care in the preservation, beautify-

ing, and care taking generally as is done in regard to the national

cemetery. Also that a suitable gate or entry way be made in the stone wall which now divides the two cemeteries, so that persons may readily

pass from one to the other. Whatever additional funds may be re-

quired for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act shall

be paid out of any fund which may be available for the maintenance of national cemeteries.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 3, 1911. (S. 5843.]

CHAP. 212.-An Act To authorize the extension of Van Buren Street northwest.

[Public, No. 456.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

DViastnriBctuorfeCnolSutmrbeieat,. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That under and in accordance

northwest. Condemning

land

with

the provisions

of subchapter

one

of chapter fifteen

of the

Code

of

for extending.

Law for the District of Columbia, within six months after the passage

Vol. 34, p. 151.

of this Act, the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be, and

they are hereby, authorized and directed to institute in the supreme

court of the District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the land that may be necessary for the extension of Van Buren Street, northwest, from Piney Branch Road to its present western terminus,

East of Third Street, northwest, with a width of sixty feet according

Provisos. beDneafmiatsg.esassessed as

Minimum ment.

assess

to the plans for the permanent system of highways of the District of Columbia: Provided, however, That the entire amount found to be
due and awarded by the jury in said proceeding as damages for and in respect of the land to be condemned for said extension, plus the costs and expenses of said proceeding, shall be assessed by the jury as benefits : And provided further, That nothing in said subchapter one of chapter fifteen of said code shall be construed to authorize

the jury to assess less than the aggregate amount of the damages

awarded for and in respect of the land to be condemned and the

costs and expenses of the proceeding hereunder.

Appropriation for

expenses.

SEC. 2. That there is hereby authorized to be expended, from the

revenues of the District of Columbia, an amount sufficient to pay

the necessary costs and expenses of the condemnation proceedings

Paymentof awards. taken pursuant hereto and for the payment of amounts awarded as

damages; to be repaid to the District of Columbia from the assess-

ments for benefits and covered into the Treasury to the credit of the revenues . of the District of Columbia.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CS. 213-215. 1911 .

1079

CHAP. 213.-An Act To remove cloud from the title of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section twenty-three, township forty-seven, range twentythree west ofthe fifth principal meridian, except ten acres off of the north side thereof, in Pettis County, Missouri, and to release the title of the United States therein to George R. Shelley, his heirs and assigns.

March 3, 1911. [S. 6059.]
[Public, No. 457. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That any title to the following- UGneiotregde RS.taStheesllteiyt.le described real estate, situated in the county of Pettis, State of Mis- to certain lands in
souri, to wit, the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section sPoeutrtii,srecloeuasnetdy,to.Mis twenty-three, in township forty-seven, of range twenty-three west of the fifth principal meridian, except ten acres off of the north side thereof, that the United States of America may have acquired in and to said land by virtue of sale made under execution issued from the clerk's office of the circuit court of the United States for the
western district of Missouri on a judgment rendered in the district court of the United States for the western district of Missouri on the
ninth day of March, anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventythree, in favor of the United States of America and against Tyre M. Berry, William D. Berry, and Milton D. Berry, which said execution was dated the twenty-third day of July, anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-three, the deed conveying said land to the United States of America, bearing date the first day of September, anno Domini, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and filed for record in the office of the recorder of deeds of Pettis County, State of Missouri, on the twenty-second day of September, anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and recorded therein in Book U, at page twenty-five, be, and the same is hereby, released to George R. Shelley, of the county of Pettis and State of Missouri, his heirs and assigns.
Approved, March 3, 1911

CHAP. 214.-An Act For the relief of William H. Walsh.

·March 8, 1911. [S.9271.]

Beitenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United (Public, No. 458. ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and William H. Walsh he is hereby, authorized to nominate, and, by and with the advice and maybe appointed en-

consent of the Senate, appoint William H. Walsh, midshipman, United sign, retired. States Navy, an ensign in the United States Navy, and place him upon the retired list as such with three-quarters pay of his grade: Provided, No back pay, etc. That the said William H. Walsh shall not, by the passage of this Act,

be entitled to back pay or allowances.

. Approved, March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 215.-An Act To authorize additional aids to navigation in theLighthouse March 8, 1911.

Establishment, and for other purposes.

[8.10177.]

[Public, No. 459.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of Com- Additional, author merce and Labor be, and he is hereby, authorized to establish and ized.

provide the following additional aids to navigation in the Lighthouse

Establishment, under the Lighthouse Service, in accordance with the

respective limits of cost respectively set forth, which shall in no case be exceeded:

To construct a power house and foundry and complete the equip- N.SYt.aten Islanddepot, hmoeunste, wdierpiontg, ,SatnatdensoIsfloarntdh,, NofetwhYeoprokw, eart aplcaonsttantotthteo geexnceereadl tlhiigrhtty- PPooswte, rp.h1o4u8s0e: , etc.

thousand dollars.

1080

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 215-218 . 1911 .

DeBlr. andywine Shoal, To rebuild and improve the present light and fog signal station, or

tiNone. w light, etc.,sta- construct a new light and fog signal station, at Brandywine Shoal,

Post, p. 1430.

Delaware Bay, Delaware, at a cost not to exceed seventy-five thousand dollars.

Buffalo Breakwater,

N. Y.

To rebuild and improve the Buffalo Breakwater North End Light

enLdi.ghtStation, north Station, New York, at a cost not to exceed sixty thousand dollars.

Post, p. 1431.

To complete the lighting of the breakwater and piers at Superior

SLiugphetrsioornEpniterrys,,Weitcs.. Entry, Wisconsin, at a cost not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars.

Boston, Mass.

To establish a lighthouse depot on the site formerly occupied by

CrDeeepko. t at Chelsea the Marine-Hospital Service, Treasury Department, on Chelsea Creek,

Proviso. Site.

Boston Harbor, Massachusetts: Provided, That such site shall be

deemed advisable by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor. And in

such event authority is hereby granted for the transfer of such site

from the Treasury Department to the Department of Commerce and

Labor.

Approved March 3, 1911.

March S, 1911.

CHAP. 216.-An Act For the relief of Passed Assistant Paymaster Edwin M.

[S. 10476.]

Hacker.

(Public, No. 460.]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Navy. Edwin

M.

Hacker

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That

the . Secretary of the

may be restored as Navy be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to restore Passed

mpasstedr. assistant pay Assistant Paymaster Edwin M. Hacker, United States Navy, to a place on the list of pay officers of the Navy, next after Passed Assistant

Paymaster Thom Williamson, junior, United States Navy.

Approved, March 8, 1911.

March 8, 1911. CHAP. 217.--An Act To designate Saint Andrews, Florida, as a subport of entry. [8.10559. ]

[Public, No. 461.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pensacola

States of America in Congress assembled, That Saint Andrews, in the

district, Fla. custom State of Florida, is hereby made a subport of entry in the district of

maSdaeisunbtpoArntodfrenetwrys. Pensacola, and the necessary customs officers may, in the discretion of R. 8. ,sec. 2562, p.506. the Secretary of the Treasury, be stationed at said subport with

authority to enter and clear vessels , receive duties, fees, and other moneys, and perform such other services as, in his judgment, the interest of commerce may require, and said officers shall receive such

compensation as he may allow.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 8, 1911. [S. 10761.]
[Public, No. 462.}

CHAP. 218. An Act To amend section three of the Act of Congress of May first, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, and extend the provisions of section twentythree hundred and one of the Revised Statutes ofthe United States to certain lands in the State of Montana embraced within the provisions of said Act, and for other purposes..

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Montana. Ceded Indian lands.

States of America in

Congress assembled, That section three of the Act

Vol. 25, p.133.

of May first, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, ratifying and con-

firming an agreement with the various tribes or bands of Indians

residing upon the Gros Ventre, Piegan, Blood, Blackfoot, and River

Crow Reservations, in Montana Territory, be, and the same is hereby,

amended so as to read as follows :

Lands opento entry under general laws.

" SEC. 3. That lands to which the right of the Indians is extin-

amVeonlde. d2. 6, p. 133, guished under the foregoing agreement are a part of the public domain of the United States and are open to the operation of laws regulating

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 218-220. 1911.

1081

the entry, sale, or disposal of the same; Provided, That no patent Proivoirsoentries conshall be denied to entries heretofore made in good faith under any of firmed.
the laws regulating entry, sale, or disposal of public lands, if said entries are in other respects regular and the laws relating thereto have been complied with. ".
Approved, March 3, 1911.

1
CHAP. 219.-An Act To promotethe erection ofamemorial in conjunction with a Perry'svictory centennial celebration on Put-in-Bay Island during the year nineteen hundred and thirteen in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Battle of Lake Erie and the northwestern campaign of General William Henry Harrison in the War of Eighteen hundred and twelve.

March 8, 1911. [8.10792 ]
[Public, No. 463:]

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That there is hereby appro- LaPkeerry's victory on priated, out of any money inthe Treasury of the United States not Appropriation for otherwise appropriated, the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand mBeamyoIrsilaalndo, netcP.ut-indollars toward the erection of a memorial in commemoration of the

victory of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry on Lake Erie and in aid of the Perry's victory centennial celebration, to be held during the year nineteen hundred and thirteen, on Put-in-Bay Island, Lake Erie, Ohio, the same to be disbursed by the Perry's Victory Centennial Commission.

SEO. 2. That the President is hereby authorized to appoint three tecnonimamlicseslieobnrattoiocne.ncitizens of the United States as commissioners of the said Perry's Appointment. victory centennial, who shall serve without pay, but who shall be reimbursed and paid out of the money herein appropriated for their actual and necessary expenses in attending their official duties, of

whom one shall be chosen from the Army and one from the Navy, to

represent the National Government in the proposed celebration and in the erection of the proposed Perry memorial, in conjunction with the

commissioners representing the several participating States.

SEO. 3. Thatthe making ofthe appropriation provided for in section tiNonoinfcuurrtrheedr. obliga-

one of this Act shall in no way operate, by implication or otherwise,

to require the United States to incur any further debt or obligation in connection with the erection of such memorial or in connection with said centennial celebration.
SEO. 4. That the money appropriated by this Act shall be paid out

Disbursement.

on the order of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States

from time to time and tothe treasurer of the organization engaged in

the erection of such monument and in promoting and in holding the

said centennial celebration, and on said Secretary being satisfied the

money appropriated will be disbursed for the objects, uses, and pur- Proviso. poses expressed in section one of this Act: Provided, That no part of contingent upon the sum hereby appropriated shall be available for the said Perry's Sctoantetsr. ibution by victory centennial celebration until the said United States commission-

ers are satisfied that a sufficient sum' has been appropriated by the

States participating therein, including the amount hereby appropriated, for the completion of said memorial.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 220.-An Act To authorize the Greeley-Arizona Irrigation Company to build a dam across the Colorado River at or near Head Gate Rock, near Parker, in Yuma County, Arizona.

March 3, 1911. [S. 10808:]
[Public, No. 464.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Colorado River. States of America in Congress assembled, That. the Greeley-Arizona Greeley-Arizona Ir.
Irrigation Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Ari- rmiagyatidoanm,Conemapr aPnary
zona, is hereby authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a diver- keArn, tAer,ipz.. 593. sion dam in and across the Colorado River at a place known as Head

1082

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 220-222 . 1911 .

Vol. 34, p. 386.

Gate Rock, near Parker, Yuma County, in the Territory of Arizona, in accordance with the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-

third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled " An Act to amend an Act

entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams across navigable

Provisos. Time of

construc- waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six ": "Pro-

tion.

vided, That the actual construction of said dam shall be begun within

two years and completed within four years from the date of the passage

etcA.pproval of plans, of this Act: And provided further, That the actual construction of said dam shall not be commenced until the plans and specifications

therefor shall have been presented to and approved by the Secretary

Ante, p. 593.

of the Interior in addition to the requirements of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled " An Act to

amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate the construction of dams

across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred

and six," and, in approving the plans and specifications, the Secretary

of the Interior may impose such conditions as to him shall seem proper

for the protection of the public interests of Indians and the United

States.

Amendment.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby

expressly reserved.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 221.-An Act To extend the time for the completion of a bridge across

[S. 10822.] the Missouri River at or near Yankton, South Dakota, by the Winnipeg, Yankton

[Public, No. 465.] and Gulf Railroad Company.

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Missouri River. Time extended for States of America in Congress assembled, That section six of the Act
bridging, at Yankton, approved April fifth, nineteen hundred and four, authorizing the

8Y.aDnaktko,nbyawnidnniGpuelgf Winnipeg, Yankton and Gulf Railroad Company to construct a com-

Railroad Company. bined railroad, wagon, and foot-passenger bridge, across the Missouri Vol. 33, p. 157.

Ante, p. 186.

River at or near the city of Yankton, South Dakota, as amended by

the Act approved January twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and ten,

be, and the same is hereby, so amended that the time within which the

said bridge is required to be commenced shall be within one year and the time within which it is required that the said bridge shall be com-
pleted shall be within three years from the date of the approval of this Act.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 222.-An Act Authorizing the Erie Railroad Company to construct a

[S. 10883.] canal connecting the Hackensack River and Berrys Creek, Bergen County, New

[Public, No. 466.] Jersey, as an aid to navigation, and for other purposes.

Beit enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

BEerrirey'RsaCirlereoakd, NC.oJm.- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Erie Railroad

pany may construct Company, a corporation of the State of New York, its successors and Canal to Hackensack

River from .

assigns, is hereby authorized, for the purpose of removing perils and

delays now incident to the navigation of Berrys Creek, in the county

of Bergen and State of New Jersey, through the presence of the bridge of the said Erie Railroad Company across said creek at a

Location.

distance of about eight thousand seven hundred feet from the point
where said creek empties into the Hackensack River and of improving the navigation of said Berrys Creek, to construct a suitable canal,

from a point in the center of Berrys Creek, northeast of the bridge

of the Erie Railroad Company over said stream, to and into the Hack-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 222-224. 1911. !

1083

ensack River: Provided, That no canal shall be constructed under PArpopvriosvoa. l ofplans. this authority unless the plans for the same are approved by the

Corps of Engineers and the Secretary of War, who are authorized to

impose such conditions as may be necessary to maintain the naviga- peCrhmiatntgeed in bridge bility of Berrys Creek unimpaired. And if said railroad company shall construct said canal to the approval of the Secretary of War,

said railroad company shall be authorized and permitted to maintain a fixed bridge over Berrys Creek at a point where the main line of

the railroad company now crosses said creek.

Amendment.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby

expressly reserved.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

CHAP. 223.-An Act Amending section seventeen hundred and nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States.

March 3, 1911. [H. R. 17433.]
[Public, No. 467.)

Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That section seventeen hun- RCo.n3s. u, sleacr. 1S7e0r9v,ipc.e3.05,
dred and nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States is hereby amended.
amended by the addition of the following paragraph : "Sixth. The Auditor for the State and other Departments shall act Estates of deceased

as conservator of such part of these estates as may be received at the Duty of Auditor for

Treasury,

and

for their

protection

the

Secretary

of

the Treasury

may

State, ments.

etc.,

Depart-

order such effects to be sold as may consist of jewelry or other articles

which have heretofore or may hereafter be received at the Treasury,

and pay the expenses of such sale out of the proceeds, provided appli-

cation for these effects shall not have been made by the legal claimant

within two years after their receipt. The Auditor is authorized to

indorse all bills of exchange, promissory notes, and other evidences of indebtedness due to such estates, and to take such steps as may be necessary for their collection. The proceeds of such sales, together

with such other moneys as may be collected by him, shall be deposited into the Treasury in trust for the legal claimant, and be reported to

the Secretary of State."

Approved, March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 224.-AnActToamend section nine hundred and ninety-six ofthe Revised Statutes ofthe United States as amended by the Act of February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven.

March8, 1911. [H. R. 18014.]
(Public, No. 463.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United UnitedStatescourts. ·States of America in Congress assembled, That section nine hundred Moneys paid into

and ninety-six of the Revised Statutes of the United States as coRu.rSt.., sec. 996, p.166, amended by the Act of February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and amended.

ninety-seven, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

"SEC.

996.

No money deposited as aforesaid shall be withdrawn

Orderofwithdrawal. vol. 29, 17 .

except by order of the judge or judges of said court, respectively, in amended.

term or in vacation, to be signed by such judge or judges, and to be entered and certified of record by the clerk; and every such order shall state the cause in or on account of which it is drawn.
In every case in which the right to withdraw money so deposited

TUnoclbaeidmeepdosmiotneedyi. n

has been adjudicated or is not in dispute and such money has remained Treasuryin five years. so deposited for at least five years unclaimed by the person entitled thereto, it shall be the duty of the judge or judges of said court, or

its successor, to cause such money to be deposited in the Treasury of the United States, in the name and to the credit of the United

1084

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 224-226. 1911 .

Proviso. Payment

on

order

States :

Provided,

That

any

person

or

persons

or

any

corporation

or

of court.

company entitled to any such money may, on petition to the court

from which the money was received, or its successor, and upon

notice to the United States attorney and full proof of right thereto,

obtain an order of court directing the payment of such money to the

claimant, and the money deposited as aforesaid shall constitute

prPiaetrimoann. ent appro- and be a permanent appropriation for payments in obedience to such deAppopsiltisc.able to prior orders, and this Act is applicable to all money deposited in the
Treasury of the United States in accordance with section nine hun-
dred and ninety-six, Revised Statutes of the United States, as

amended February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven.' 1Approved, March 3, 1911 .

March 8, 1911. [H. R. 26290.]

CHAP. 225.--An Act-Providing for the validation of certain homestead entries.

[Public, No. 469.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

·Public lands.

States of America in Congress assembled, That all homestead entries

inHnoamteiosntaelafdoreesntts.ries wofhitchhehearvreonbeeoeunscaanlcleolweadncoer roeflisnuqcuhisehnetdr,ioers aarfeteirnvtahliedwsiotlehldyrbaewcaalusoef

caRnecleulsetdatfeomr eenrtroonel-, lands for national forest purposes, may be reinstated or allowed to ous allowance.
remain intact, but in the case of entries heretofore canceled applica-

tions for reinstatement must be filed in the proper local land office

prior to July first, nineteen hundred and twelve.

Rights of contestants.

SEO. 2: That in all cases where contests were initiated under the

Vol. 21, p. 141. provisions of the Act of May fourteenth, eighteen hundred and

eighty, prior to the withdrawal of the land for national forest pur-

poses, the qualified successful contestants may exercise their preference right to enter the land within six months after the passage of this Act.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 3, 1911. [H. R. 26656.]

CHAP. 226.- An Act To prevent the disclosure of national defense secrets.

[Public, No. 470.] Beitenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

National defense. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That whoever, for the purpose

Offenses specified. Obtaining unlawful

of

obtaining

information

respecting

the

national

defense,

to

which

he

information.

is not lawfully entitled, goes upon any vessel, or enters any navy-

yard, naval station, fort, battery, torpedo station, arsenal, camp, factory, building, office, or other place connected with the national

defense, owned or constructed or in process of construction by the United States, or in the possession or under the control of the United

States or any of its authorities or agents, and whether situated within

the United States or in any place noncontiguous to but subject to the

grOabpthasi,nsiknegtpchhoetos-, jurisdiction thereof; or whoever, when lawfully or unlawfully upon

plans, etc.

any vessel, or in or near any such place, without proper authority,

obtains, takes, or makes, or attempts to obtain, take, or make, any

document, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, plan, model, or

knowledge of anything connected with the national defense to which

inRfoercmeaitviionng.unlawful he is not entitled; or whoever, without proper authority, receives or obtains, or undertakes or agrees to receive or obtain, from any per-

son, any such document, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, plan, model, or knowledge, knowing the sameto have been so obtained,

forCmoamtmiuonni. cating in- taken, or made; or whoever, having possession of or control over any such document, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, plan,
model, or knowledge, willfully and without proper authority, com-
municates or attempts to communicate the same to any person not

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS.. SESS. III. CHS. 226, 227. 1911 .

1085

entitled to receive it, or to whom the same ought not, in the interest Disclosing plans,
of the national defense, be communicated at that time; or whoever, et
being lawfully intrusted with any such document, sketch, photograph,
photographic negative, plan, model, or knowledge, willfully and in

breach of his trust, so communicates or attempts to communicate the Punishment. same, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned
not more than one year, or both. .SEC. 2., That whoever, having committed any offense defined in the coPmumnuinsihcmaetinotnftoor preceding section, communicates or attempts to communicate to any fetocr.eign governments, foreign government, or to any agent or employee thereof, any docu-

ment, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, plan, model, or knowledge so obtained, taken, or made, or so intrusted to him, shall

be imprisoned not more than ten years.

SEC.

3.

That offenses against the

provisions of

this

Act

committed

Jurisdiction for offenses on high seas

upon the high seas or elsewhere outside of a judicial district shall be

cognizable in the district where the offender is found or into which he In the Philippines. is first brought; but offenses hereunder committed within the Philip-
pine Islands shall be cognizable in any court of said islands having

original jurisdiction of criminal cases, with the same right of appeal as is given in other criminal cases where imprisonment exceeding one year forms a part of the penalty; and jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon such courts for such purpose.
Approved, March 3, 1911.

CHAP. 227.-An Act Making appropriations for the payment of invalid and other
pensions of the United States for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

March 8, 1911 [H. R. 29157.]
[Public, No. 471.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, atPioennss.ions appropriand the same are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the payment of pensions for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes, namely:
· For Army and Navy pensions, as follows: For invalids, widows, Invalid, etc., penminor children, and dependent relatives, Army nurses, and all other pensioners who are now borne, on the rolls, or who may hereafter
be placed thereon, under the provisions of any and all Acts of Congress, one hundred and fifty- three million dollars : Provided, That PNraovviysopsensions. the appropriation aforesaid for Navy pensions shall be paid from
the income of the Navy pension fund, so far as the same shall be
sufficient for that purpose: Provided further, That the amount Accounts.
expended under each of the above items shall be accounted for separately.
For fees and expenses of examining surgeons, pensions, for services EFxeaesm.ining surgeons. rendered within the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, two hundred thousand dollars.
For salaries of agents for the payment of pensions, at four thous Agents'salaries. sand dollars each, seventy-two thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
For clerk hire, and other services, pension agencies, three hundred Clerk hire.
and eighty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be nec- Proviso. essary: Provided, That the amount of clerk hire, and other services, poval of Secreand the salariés paid shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary. tary of the Interior.
For stationery and other necessary expenses, twenty-five thousand Stationery. dollars.
The Commissioner of Pensions is directed to formulate and embrace coSuintmsp. lifying acin his next annual report a simplified plan for the payment of pensions Plantobe reported.

1086

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 227-230. 1911.
whereby all preliminary vouchers shall be abolished and the only vouchers required shall be attached to or a part of the payment checks and the Commissioner shall further report what, if any, changes in the law are necessary to carry such plan into effect.
Approved, March 3 , 1911 .

March 8, 1911. [H. R. 29708.]
[Public, No. 472.]

CHAP. 228.-- An Act To constitute Birmingham , in the State of Alabama, a subport of entry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

toMmosbdiisltreic,t.Ala.,cus States of America in Congress assembled, That Birmingham, in the
Birmingham made State of Alabama, be, and the same is hereby, constituted a subport of subport of entry.
R. 9. ,sec. 2564, p . 507. entry in the customs collection district of Mobile, and that the priv-

poIrtmamtieodnifaactileititersa. ns ileges of section seven of the Act approved June tenth, eighteen hunVol. 21, p. 174. dred and eighty, governing the immediate transportation of dutiable

merchandise without appraisement, be, and the same are hereby,

extended to the said subport of Birmingham, Alabama.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

March 3, 1911. [H. R. 31239.]
[Public, No. 473.]

CHAP. 229.-An Act To authorize Park C. Abell, George B. Lloyd, and Andrew B. Sullivan, of Indian Head, Charles County, Maryland, to construct a bridge across the Mattawoman Creek, near the village of Indian Head, Maryland.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
MPartktaC.woAbmealnlCerteeakl. States of America in Congress assembled, That Park C. Abell, George Hmeaaydb,rMiddg.e, at Indian B. Lloyd, and Andrew B. Sullivan, of Indian Head, Charles County,
Maryland, and their assigns, are hereby authorized to construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Matta-

woman Creek, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or

Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

near the village of Indian Head, in the County of Charles, in the State of Maryland, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters, " approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, March 3, 1911.

March 3, 1911. [H. R. 31806.]
[Public, No. 474.]

CHAP. 230.-An Act To amend section one of the Act approved March second, nineteen hundred and seven, being an Act to amend an Act entitled "An Act con-
ferring jurisdiction upon United States commissioners over offenses committed on a portion ofthe permanent Hot Springs Mountain Reservation, Arkansas."

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

taHinoRteSsperviantgisoMn,oAurnk-. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That section one of the Act Jurisdiction over. approved March second, nineteen hundred and seven (Thirty-fourth

Statutes, page twelve hundred and eighteen), is amended so as to read

as follows:

Any United States commissioner given

"That any United States commissioner duly appointed by the United

jvuiroilsadtiicotniso. n over all States district court for the eastern district of Arkansas, and residing

Vol34, p. 1218. in said district, shall have power and jurisdiction to hear and act upon

all complaints made of any and all violations of said Act of Congress

approved April twentieth, nineteen hundred and four."

Approved, March 3, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1087

CHAP. 231.-An Act To codify, revise, and amend the laws relating to the judiciary .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the laws relating to the judiciary be, and they hereby are, codified, revised, and amended, with title, chapters, head-notes, and sections, entitled, numbered, and to read as follows:
TITLE .

March 8, 1911. (S. 7031.]
[Public, No. 475.] Judicial Code.
Title.

THE JUDICIARY.

The Judiciary.

CHAPTER ONE.

Chapter 1.

DISTRICT COURTS- ORGANIZATION.

District courts, or ganization.

Sec.

Sec.

1. District courts established; appoint- 15. When designation to be made by

ment and residence of judges.

Chief Justice.

2. Salaries of district judges. 3. Clerks. 4. Deputy clerks. 5. Criers and bailiffs.
6. Records; where kept.

16. New appointment and revocation.
17. Designation of district judge in aid of another judge.
18. When circuitjudge may be designated to hold district court.

7. Effect of altering terms. 8. Trials not discontinued by new term. 9. Court always open as courts of admi-
ralty and equity.

19. Duty of district and circuit judge in such cases.
20. When district judge is interested or related to parties.

10. Monthly adjournments for trial of 21. When affidavit of personal bias or

criminal causes.

prejudice of judge is filed.

11. Special terms.

22. Continuance in case of vacancy in

12. Adjournment in case of nonattend-

office.

ance ofjudge.

23. Districts having more than one judge;

13. Designation of another judge in case

division of business.

of disability of judge.

14. Designation of another judge in case of an accumulation of business.

District courts. SEO. 1. In each of the districts described in chapter five, there shall R. S., sec. 551, p. 93.

be a court called a district court, for which there shall be appointed trJicutd. ge for each dis-

one judge, to be called a district judge; except that in the northern naAtdedditStiaotneasl. fordesig district of California, the northern district of Illinois, the district of Vol. 34,p. 1253; Vol. Maryland, the district of Minnesota, the district of Nebraska, the V3o,lP..3929, 5p;. A79n5t;eV, opl. 2.0314.,
district of New Jersey, the eastern district of New York, the northern pVo. l99. 73:1,Vpol. 7. 2363;, Vpo.l9. 3847;, and southern districts of Ohio, the district of Oregon, the eastern and p. 928; Ante, p. 202. western districts of Pennsylvania, and the western district of Wash- Vol. 35,p. 696: Vol. 83,

ington, there shall be an additional district judge in each, and in the Vol.35,p. 686,Vol.5322,

southern district of New York, three additional district judges : Pro- Vo 35V, po.l.6835., p. 202; Provisos.
vided, That whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the district Maryland senior
judge for the district of Maryland, senior in commission, such vacancy juAdngtee., p. 201. shall not be filled, and thereafter there shall be but one district judge Service in two dis-

in said district : Providedfurther, That there shall be one judge for the triRc.tsS., sec. 552, p. 93. eastern and western districts of South Carolina, one judge for the eastern and middle districts of Tennessee, and one judge for the northern and southern districts of Mississippi : Providedfurther, That · AVloal.b2a4m,ap.. 213. the district judge for the middle district of Alabama shall continue

as heretofore to be a district judge for the northern district thereof. Residence required. Every district judge shall reside in the district or one of the districts

for which he is appointed, and for offending against this provision shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor.
SEO. 2. Each of the district judges shall receive a salary of six thousand dollars a year, to be paid in monthly installments.
SEO. 3. A clerk shall be appointed for each district court by the
judge thereof, except in cases otherwise provided for by law. SEO. 4. Except as otherwise specially provided by law, the clerk of

Vol. 92,p.825 Clerks. R. S., scc. 555, p. 93.
DAeppuotiyntcmlenrkts. and

the district court for each district may, with the approval of the dis- teRn.urSe.., sec. 559, p. 94. trict judge thereof, appoint such number of deputy clerks as may bo

1088

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

deemed necessary by such judge, who may be designated to reside

and maintain offices at such places of holding court as the judge may

determine. Such deputies may be removed at the pleasure of the

clerk appointing them, with the concurrence of the district judge.

In case of the death of the clerk, his deputy or deputies shall, unless

removed, continue in office and perform the duties of the clerk, in his name, until a clerk is appointed and qualified ; and for the default or

misfeasances in office of any such deputy, whether in the lifetime of

the clerk or after his death, the clerk and his estate and the sureties

on his official bond shall be liable ; and his executor or administrator

shall have such remedy for any such default or misfeasances committed after his death as the clerk would be entitled to if the same had

occurred in his lifetime.
Criers and bailiffs. R. 8., sec. 715, p. 136. SEC. 5. The district court for each district may appoint a crier for
the court; and the marshal may appoint such number of persons, not

exceeding five, as the judge may determine, to wait upon the grand

and other juries, and for other necessary purposes.

Preservation of rec-

ords.

SEO. 6. The records of a district court shall be kept at the place

R. S. , sec. 562, p. 94. where the court is held. When it is held at more than one place in

any district and the place of keeping the records is not specially pro-

vided by law, they shall be kept at either of the places of holding the

court which may be designated by the district judge. Change of terms not SEC. 7. No action, suit, proceeding, or process in any district court tcaosesaf. fect pending shall abate or be rendered invalid by reason of any act changing the

R. S., sec. 573, p. 101. time of holding such court, but the same shall be deemed to be return-

able to, pending, and triable in the terms established next after the

return day thereof.

Continuance of cases beyond regularterms.

SEO. 8. When the trial or hearing of any cause, civil or criminal, in

R. S. , sec. 746, p. 141. a district court has been commenced and is in progress before a jury

or the court, it shall not be stayed or discontinued by the arrival of

the time fixed by law for another session of said court; but the court

may proceed therein and bring it to a conclusion in the same manner and with the same effect as if another stated term of the court had

not intervened.

Always open for

equity and admiralty SEO. 9. The district courts, as courts of admiralty and as courts of

business.

equity, shall be deemed always open for the purpose of filing any

R. S., sec. 574, p. 101. pleading, of issuing and returning mesne and final process, and of

making and directing all interlocutory motions, orders, rules, and

other proceedings preparatory to the hearing, upon their merits, of

etcO.rders inchambers, all causes pending therein. Any district judge may, upon reasonable notice to the parties, make, direct, and award, at chambers or in the clerk's office, and in vacation as well as in term, all such process, com-

missions, orders, rules, and other proceedings, whenever the same are

not grantable of course, according to the rules and practice of the

court.

Adjournments for criminal trials.

SEC. 10. District courts shall hold monthly adjournments of their

R. S. , sec. 578, p. 102. regular terms, for the trial of criminal causes, when their business

requires it to be done, in order to prevent undue expenses and delays

in such cases.

Special terms. R. 8., sec. 581, p. 102.

SEC. 11. A special term of any district court may be held at the

same place where any regular term is held, or at such other place in

the district as the nature of the business may require, and at such

time and upon such notice as may be ordered by the district judge.

Any business may be transacted at such special term which might be

transacted at a regular term.

Adjournment in ab-

sence of judge.

SEO. 12. If the judge of any district court is unable to attend at the

R. S.,sec. 63, p. 102. commencement of any regular, adjourned , or special term, or any time

during such term, the court may be adjourned by the marshal, or

clerk, by virtue of a written order directed to him by the judge, to the

next regular term, or to any earlier day, as the order may direct.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1089

SEO. 13. When any district judge is prevented, by any disability, anDoethseirgjnuadgteidounriongf
from holding any stated or appointed term of his district court, and a Ftermopmorsaarmyeacbisrecunicte.. that fact is made to appear by the certificate of the clerk, under the B. S.,sec.591, p. 104

seal of the court, to any circuit judge of the circuit in which the dis-

trict lies, or, in the absence of all the circuit judges, to the circuit

justice of the circuit in which the district lies, any such circuit judge

or justice may, if in his judgment the public interests so require, designate and appoint the judge of any other district in the same circuit to hold said court, and to discharge all the judicial duties of the From another cir

judge so disabled, during such disability. Whenever it shall be certi- cuVltol. 34, p. 1417. fied by any such circuit judge or, in his absence, by the circuit justice of the circuit in which the district lies, that for any sufficient reason

it is impracticable to designate and appoint a judge of another dis-

trict within the circuit to perform the duties of such disabled judge,

the chief justice may, if in his judgment the public interests so

require, designate and appoint the judge of any district in another

circuit to hold said court and to discharge all the judicial duties of Record of designathe judge so disabled, during such disability. Such appointment tion.

shall be filed in the clerk's office, and entered on the minutes of the

said district court, and a certified copy thereof, under the seal of the

court, shall be transmitted by the clerk to the judge so designated

and appointed.

SEO. 14: When, from the accumulation or urgency of business in poDseesiogfnaatcicounmtuloadtiesd

any district court, the public interests require the designation and orRu.r8g.e,snetcb.u5s9i2n, pes. s104. appointment hereinafter provided, and the fact is made to appear,

by the certificate of the clerk, under the seal of the court, to any

circuit judge of the circuit in which the district lies, or, in the absence

of all the circuit judges, to the circuit justice of the circuit in which

the district lies, such circuit judge or justice may designate, and

appoint the judge of any other district in the same circuit to have.
and exercise within the district first named the same powers that Separate courts au-
are vested in the judge thereof. Each of the said district judges thorized..

may, in case of such appointment, hold separately at the same time

a district court in such district, and discharge all the judicial duties

of the district judge therein.

SEO. 15. If all the circuit judges and the circuit justice are absent poDreasriygjnuadtgieonboyfCtheime-f

from the circuit, or are unable to execute the provisions of either JusRt.i8c.e,.sec. 693,p. 104. of the two preceding sections, or if the district judge so designated

is disabled or neglects to hold the court and transact the business for which he is designated, the clerk of the district court shall cer-

tify the fact to the Chief Justice of the United States, who may

thereupon designate and appoint in the manner aforesaid the judge

of any district within such circuit or within any other circuit; and said appointment shall be transmitted to the clerk and be acted

upon by him as directed in the preceding section. SEO. 16. Any such circuit judge, or circuit justice, or the Chief ifNreequwiredde.signations

Justice, as the case may be, may, from time to time, if in his judg. R. S.,sec. 594, p. 104.

ment the public interests so require, make a new designation and

appointment of any other district judge, in the manner, for the

duties, and with the powers mentioned in the three preceding sec-

tions, and revoke any previous designation and appointment. SEC. 17. It shall be the duty of the senior circuit judge then present Seniorcircuit judge todesignate fromany
in the circuit, whenever in his judgment the public interest so requires, disRt.rSi.ct, siencc. i6r9c6u, ipt.. 105. to designate and appoint, in the manner and with the powers pro- Vol . 21 , p. 454.
vided in section fourteen, the district judge of any judicial district

within his circuit to hold a district court in the place or in aid of

any other district judge within the same circuit.

Circuitjudgetohold

SEO. 18. Whenever, in the judgment of the senior circuit judge district court.

of the circuit in which the district lies, or of the circuit justice assigned

to such circuit, or of the Chief Justice, the public interest shall

1090

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

require, the said judge, or associate justice, or Chief Justice, shall

designate and appoint any circuit judge of the circuit to hold said

district court.

Authority, etc., of designated judge.

SEC. 19. It shall be the duty of the district or circuit judge who

R. S., sec. 595, p. 104. is designated and appointed under either of the six preceding sec-

tions, to discharge all the judicial duties for which he is so appointed,

during the time for which he is so appointed ; and all the acts and

proceedings in the courts held by him, or by or before him, in pur-

suance of said provisions, shall have the same effect and validity as

if done by or before the district judge of the said district.

Action when judge disqualified to serve.

SEC. 20. Whenever it appears that the judge of any district court

R. S., sec. 601 , p. 105. is in any way concerned in interest in any suit pending therein, or

has been of counsel or is a material witness for either party, or is so

related to or connected with either party as to render it improper, in his opinion, for him to sit on the trial, it shall be his duty, on appli-

cation by either party, to cause the fact to be entered on the records of the court; and also an order that an authenticated copy thereof shall be forthwith certified to the senior circuit judge for said circuit

then present in the circuit; and thereupon such proceedings shall be
had as are provided in section fourteen. Action when personal biasorprejudice SEC. 21. Whenever a party to any action or proceeding, civil or of judge is charged. criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge before whom

the action or proceeding is to be tried or heard has a personal bias or prejudice either against him or in favor of any opposite party to the

Affidavit required.

suit, such judge shall proceed no further therein, but another judge shall be designated in the manner prescribed in the section last preceding, or chosen in the manner prescribed in section twenty-three, to hear such matter. Every such affidavit shall state the facts and

the reasons for the belief that such bias or prejudice exists, and shall

be filed not less than ten days before the beginning of the term of the court, or good cause shall be shown for the failure to file it within

such time. No party shall be entitled in any case to file more than one such affidavit; and no such affidavit shall be filed unless accom-

panied by a certificate of counsel of record that such affidavit and

parWthiaelintyj.udge admits application are made in good faith . The same proceedings shall be had when the presiding judge shall file with the clerk of the court a certificate that he deems himself unable for any reason to preside with

absolute impartiality in the pending suit or action.

Continuance ifoffice becomes vacant.

SEC. 22. When the office of judge of any district court becomes

R. S. , secs. 602, 603, Vacant, all process, pleadings, and proceedings pending before such p. 105.
court shall, if necessary, be continued by the clerk thereof until such

times as a judge shall be appointed, or designated to hold such court ; and the judge so designated, while holding such court, shall possess

the powers conferred by, and be subject to the provisions contained

in, section nineteen.

Division of business in districts with addi-

SEC. 23. In districts having more than one district judge, the judges

tional judge.

may agree upon the division of business and assignment of cases for

trial in said district ; but in case they do not so agree, the senior cir-

cuit judge of the circuit in which the district lies, shall make all nec-

essary orders for the division of business and the assignment of cases for trial in said district.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1091

CHAPTER TWO.

Chapter 2.

DISTRICT COURTS JURISDICTION.

District courts, ju risdiction.

Sec.
24. Original jurisdiction. Par. 1. Where the United States are plaintiffs; and of civil suits at common law orin
equity. 2. Of crimes and offenses.
3. Of admiralty causes, seizures, and prizes.
4. Of suits under any law relating to the slave trade.
5. Of cases under internal
revenue, customs, and
tonnage laws. 6. Of suits under postal laws. 7. Of suits under the patent,
the copyright, and the trade-mark laws. 8. Of suits for violation of interstate commerce laws. 9. Of penaltiesand forfeitures. 10. Of suits on debentures. 11. Of suits for injuries on account of acts done under laws of the United States.
12. Of suits concerning civil rights.
13. Ofsuits against personshav-
ing knowledge of conspiracy, etc. 14. Of suits to redress the deprivation, under color of law, of civil rights.

Sec.
24. Original jurisdiction-Continued. Par. 15. Of suits to recover certain offices.
16. Of suits against nationalbanking associations.
17. Of suits by aliens for torts. 18. Of suits against consuls
and vice-consuls.
19. Ofsuits and proceedings in bankruptcy.
20. Of suits against the United States.
21. Of suits for the unlawful
inclosure ofpublic lands. 22. Of suits under immigra-
tion and contract-labor laws.
23. Of suits against trusts, monopolies, and unlawful combinations.
*24. Of suits concerning allotments ofland to Indians.
25. Of partition suits where United States is joint tenant.
25. Appellate jurisdiction under Chinese exclusion laws.
26. Appellate jurisdiction over Yellowstone National Park.
27 . Jurisdiction ofcrimes on Indian reservations in South Dakota.

SEO.

24.

The

district

courts

shall

have

original jurisdiction

as

fol-

Original tion.

jurisdic.

lows:

R. S., secs. 563, 629, pp. 94, 110.

First. Of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, UnSiutletds Stbartoeus.ght by

brought by the United States, or by any officer thereof authorized by

law to sue, or between citizens of the same State claiming lands under diUffnedreenrt gStraatnetss. from grants from different States; or, where the matter in controversy

exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of three

thousand dollars, and (a) arises under the Constitution or laws of the lawUsn.der United States
United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Citizens of different authority, or (b) is between citizens of different States, or (c) is States.

between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects. etWc.ith foreign States, No district court shall have cognizance of any suit (except upon Restriction onprom-

foreign bills of exchange) to recover upon any promissory note or issory notes.

other chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent

holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover upon said note or other chose in action if no
assignment had been made: Provided, however, That the foregoing EPxrcoevpitsio.ons. provision as to the sum or value of the matter in controversy shall not be construed to apply to any of the cases mentioned in the succeeding paragraphs of this section.
Second . Of all crimes and offenses cognizable under the authority Crimesand offenses. of the United States.
Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, itAidmmeicraaslety and mar-

saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where

the common law is competent to give it; of all seizures on land or waters not within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; of all prizes brought into the United States; and of all proceedings for the condemnation of property taken as prize.

1092

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Slave trade.

Fourth. Of all suits arising under any law relating to the slave trade.

Revenue cases. Customsappeals ex-

Fifth. Of all cases arising under any law providing for internal

cepted .

revénue, or from revenue from imports or tonnage, except those

Ante, p. 106.

cases arising under any law providing revenue from imports, juris-

diction of which has been conferred upon the Court of Customs

Postal suits.

Appeals. Sixth. Of all cases arising under the postal laws.

Patents, copyrights, and trade-

Seventh. Of all suits at law or in equity arising under the patent,

marks.

the copyright, and the trade-mark laws.

Commerce suits. Cases in Commerce

Eighth. Of all suits and proceedings arising under any law regu-

Court excepted. Ante, p. 539.

lating commerce, except those suits and proceedings exclusive jurisdiction of which has been conferred upon the Commerce Court.

Penalties and forfeitures.

Ninth. Of all suits and proceedings for the enforcement of pen-

alties and forfeitures incurred under any law of the United States. Suits on debentures. Tenth. Of all suits by the assignee of any debenture for drawback

of duties, issued under any law for the collection of duties, against

the person to whom such debenture was originally granted, or against

any indorser thereof, to recover the amount of such debenture .

Sul's for damages under United States

Eleventh. Of all suits brought by any person to recover damages

laws.

for any injury to his person or property on account of any act done

by him, under any law of the United States, for the protection or

collection of any of the revenues thereof, or to enforce the right of

citizens of the United States to vote in the several States.

Civil rights suits.

Twelfth. Of all suits authorized by law to be brought by any

person for the recovery of damages on account of any injury to his

person or property, or of the deprivation of any right or privilege of a citizen of the United States, by any act done in furtherance of any

conspiracy mentioned in section nineteen hundred and eighty,

Revised Statutes.

Knowledge of con-

spiracy, etc.

Thirteenth. Of all suits authorized by law to be brought against

any person who, having knowledge that any of the wrongs mentioned 34R7.. S., sec. 1980. P. in section nineteen hundred and eighty, Revised Statutes, are about

to be done, and, having power to prevent or aid in preventing the

same, neglects or refuses so to do, to recover damages for any such

wrongful act.

Redress for depriva-

tion of civil rights.

Fourteenth. Of all suits at law or in equity authorized by law to

be brought by any person to redress the deprivation, under color of

any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any State, of any right, privilege, or immunity, secured by the Constitu-

tion of the United States, or of any right secured by any law of the

United States providing for equal rights of citizens of the United

Recoveryof office. States, or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States. Fifteenth . Of all suits to recover possession of any office, except

that of elector of President or Vice President, Representative in or

Delegate to Congress, or member of à State legislature, authorized

by law to be brought, wherein.it appears that the sole question touch-

ing the title to such office arises out of the denial of the right to vote

Proviso.

to any citizen offering to vote, on account of race, color, or previous

Limited to determi. condition of servitude: Provided, That such jurisdiction shall extend

nation of civil rights. only so far as to determine the rights of the parties to such office by

reason of the denial of the right guaranteed by the Constitution of
the United States, and secured by any law, to enforce the right of
citizens of the United States to vote in all the States. National bank cases.
Sixteenth. Of all cases commenced by the United States, or by

direction of any officer thereof, against any national banking asso-

ciation, and cases for winding up the affairs of any such bank; and of all suits brought by any banking association established in the

district for which the court is held, under the provisions of title "National Banks," Revised Statutes, to enjoin the Comptroller of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.231 . 1911 .

1093

the Currency, or any receiver acting under his direction, as provided
by said title. And all national banking associations established under the laws of the United States shall, for the purposes of all other actions by or against them, real, personal, or mixed, and all suits in equity, be deemed citizens of the States in which they are respectively located.

Seventeenth. Of all suits brought by any alien for a tort only, in onBlyy. allens for tort

violation of the laws of nations or of a treaty of the United States.

Eighteenth. Of all suits against consuls and vice consuls.

Consular cases.

Ninteenth. Of all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy.

Bankruptcy.

Twentieth. Concurrent with the Court of Claims, of all claims not UnCiltaeidmSstaatgeasi.nst the exceeding ten thousand dollars founded upon the Constitution of the Vol. 24, p. 505.

United States or any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an

: Executive Department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated

or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect to which

claims the party would be entitled to redress against the United

States, either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty, if the United

States were suable, and of all set-offs, counterclaims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatso-

ever on the part of the Government of the United States against any claimant against the Government in said court: Provided, however, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as giving to either the district courts or the Court of Claims jurisdiction to hear and determine claims growing out of the late Civil War, and commonly known as " war claims," or to hear and determine other claims which

Provisos. alms excepted.
Warclaims.
Rejected claims.

had been rejected or reported on adversely prior to the third day of
March, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, by any court, depart · ment, or commission authorized to hear and determine the same, or.
Pensions. to hear and determine claims for pensions ; or as giving to the district Official services.
Vol. 30 p. 495. courts jurisdiction of cases brought to recover fees, salary, or com-
pensation for official services of officers of the United States or brought
for such purpose by persons claiming as such officers or as assignees 
or legal representatives thereof; but no suit pending on the twenty- Vol. 31, p. 33.
seventh day of June, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, shall abate
or be affected by this provision : And provided further, That no suit yeTarosb.ebrought in six
against the Government of the United States shall be allowed under
this paragraph unless the same shall have been brought within six Rights of married years after the right accrued for which the claim is made: Provided, women,minors, etc. That the claims of married women, first accrued during marriage, of

persons under the age of twenty-one years, first accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics, insane persons, and persons beyond the seas at the time the claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not
be barred if the suit be brought within three years after the disability has ceased; but no other disability than those enumerated shall pre-
vent any claim from being barred, nor shall any of the said disabilities-
operate cumulatively. All suits brought and tried under the provi- Without jury. sions of this paragraph shall be tried by the court without a jury.
Twenty-first. Of proceedings in equity, by writ of injunction, to Unlawful inclosures restrain violations of the provisions of laws of the United States to of public lands..

prevent the unlawful inclosure of public lands ; and it shall be sufficient

to give the court jurisdiction if service of original process be had in

any civil proceeding on any agent or employee having charge or

control of the inclosure.

Twenty-second.

Of

all

suits

and

proceedings

arising

under

-any

contract

labor

and cases.

law regulating the immigration of aliens, or under the c1 ontract labor laws.

Twenty-third. Of all suits and proceedings arising under any law Antitrust cases. to protect trade and commerce against restraints and monopolies.
88740°-vol 36, FT 1--11--71´ ,

1094

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.231 . 1911 .

Indian alllotments. Twenty-fourth. Of all actions, suits, or proceedings involving the

right of any person, in whole or in part of Indian blood or descent, to

any allotment of land under any law or treaty. Partition suits where United States Twenty-fifth. Of suits in equity brought by any tenant in common
a tenantin common. or joint tenant for the partition of lands in cases where the United

States is one of such tenants in common or joint tenants, such suits

to be brought in the district in which such land is situate.

Chinese exclusion appeals.

SEO. 25. The district courts shall have appellate jurisdiction of the

judgments and orders of United States commissioners in cases arising

under the Chinese exclusion laws.

Yellowstone Park

offenses in Wyoming SEC. 26. The district court for the district of Wyoming shall have

district court.

jurisdiction of all felonies committed within the Yellowstone National

Park and appellate jurisdiction of judgments in cases of conviction

Vol. 28, p. 74.

before the commissioner authorized to be appointed under section five of an Act entitled " An Act to protect the birds and animals in

Yellowstone National Park, and to punish crimes in said Park, and

for other purposes," approved May seventh, eighteen hundred and

ninety-four.

Indian reservations, South Dakota.

SEO. 27. The district court of the United States for the district of

tiConriimnindaisltriJcutricsoduiret-. South Dakota shall have jurisdiction to hear, try, and determine all actions and proceedings in which any person shall be charged with

the crime of murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to kill,

arson, burglary, larceny, or assault with a dangerous weapon, com-

mitted within the limits of any Indian reservation in the State of South Dakota.

Chapter 3.

CHAPTER THREE.

District courts, removal of causes.

DISTRICT COURTS- REMOVAL OF CAUSES.

Sec.

Sec.

28. Removal of suits from State to United 34. Removal of suits by aliens.

States district courts.

35. When copies of records are refused by

29. Procedure for removal.

clerk of State court.

30. Suits under grants of land from differ- 36. Previous attachment bonds, orders,

ent States.

etc., remain valid.

31. Removal of causes against persons denied any civil rights, etc.
32. When petitioner is in actual custody of State court.
33. Suits and prosecutions against revenue officers, etc.

37. Suits improperly in district court may be dismissed or remanded.
38. Proceedings in suits removed.
39. Time for filing record; return of record, how enforced.

Removal of suits SEC. 28. Any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, arising under fcoruormtsS.tate to district the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or
CVaosle.s25u,npd.e4r33C.onsti- which shall be made, under their authority, of which the district courts
ttiuetsi:on, laws, or trea- of the United States are given original jurisdiction by this title, which may now be pending or which may hereafter be brought, in any State court, may be removed by the defendant or defendants therein to the
feBndyanntosn.resident de district court of the United States for the proper district. Any other suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, of which the district courts of
the United States are given jurisdiction by this title, and which are
now pending or which may hereafter be brought, in any State court,
may be removed into the district court of the United States for the
proper district by the defendant or defendants therein, being nonBetween citizens of residents of that State. And when in any suit mentioned in this secdifferent States.
tion there shall be a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined as between them,
then either one or more of the defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove said suit into the district court of the United
preOjnudaiccceo.unt of local States for the proper district. And where a suit is now pending, or may hereafter be brought, in any State court, in which there is a con-
troversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought and
à citizen of another State, any defendant, being such citizen of another

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1095

State, may remove such suit into the district court ofthe United States

for the proper district, at any time before the trial thereof, when it shall be made to appear to said district court that from prejudice or local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in such State court, or in

any other State court to which the said defendant may, under the laws of the State, have the right, on account of such prejudice or local influ- Provisos. ence, to remove said cause: Provided, That if it further appear that Remanding as to said suit can be fully and justly determined as to the other defendants pbayrptrieesjudniocte, aetfcf.ected in the State court, without being affected by such prejudice or local
influence, and that no party to the suit will be prejudiced by a separa-

tion of the parties, said district court may direct the suit to be

remanded, so far as relates to such other defendants, to the State

court, to be proceeded with therein.

At

any

time

before the trial

of

Where denied.

justice

not

any suit which is now pending in any district court, or may hereafter

be entered therein, and which has been removed to said court from a

State court on the affidavit of any party plaintiff that he had reason to believe and did believe that, from prejudice or local influence, he was unable to obtain justice in said State court, the district court shall, on application of the other party, examine into the truth of said affidavit

and the grounds thereof, and, unless it shall appear to the satisfaction
of said court that said party will not be able to obtain justice in said State court, it shall cause the same to be remanded thereto. When- No appeal from
order remanding. ever any cause shall be removed from any State court into any district
court of the United States, and the district court shall decide that the
cause was improperly removed, and order the same to be remanded to

the State court from whence it came, such remand shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or writ of error from the decision Damage s of the district court so remanding such cause shall be allowed: Pro- against commonuciatrs-

vided, That no case arising under an Act entitled " An Act relating to riVeorsln. o35t,rpe.m6o5v.able. the liability of common carriers by railroad to their employees in cer-
tain cases," approved April twenty-second, nineteen hundred and

eight, or any amendment thereto, and brought in any State court of

competent jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the United

States.

SEO. 29.

Whenever

any

party

entitled

to

remove

any

suit

men- Procedure moval.

for

re-

tioned in the last preceding section, except suits removable on the Vol. 25, p. 1434.

ground of prejudice or local influence, may desire to remove such suit

from a State court to the district court of the United States, he may

make and file a petition, duly verified, in such suit in such State court Filing petition, etc.

at the time, or any time before the defendant is required by the laws

of the State or the rule ofthe State court in which such suit is brought

to answer or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff, for the removal of such suit into the district court to be held in the

district where such suit is pending, and shall make and file therewith Bond required.

a bond, with good and sufficient surety, for his or their entering in

such district court, within thirty days from the date of filing said petition, a certified copy of the record in such suit, and for paying all costs that may be awarded by the said district court if said district

court shall hold that such suit was wrongfully or improperly removed thereto, and also for their appearing and entering special bail in such suit if special bail was originallyrequisite therein. It shall then be the ceSetdanteo cfuorutrhtert.o produty of the State court to accept said petition and bond and proceed no further in such suit. Written notice of said petition and bond

for removal shall be given the adverse party or parties prior to filing

the same. The said copy being entered within said thirty days as aforesaid in said district court of the United States, the parties so

removing the said cause shall, within thirty days thereafter, plead,

answer, or demur to the declaration or complaint in said cause, and the cause shall then proceed in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced in the said district court. ·

1096

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Suits under grants of land from different SEO. 30. If in any action commenced in a State court the title of

States.

land be concerned, and the parties are citizens of the same State and

BVo.lS..2,5s,epc..6144375,.p. 117. the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of three thousand

dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value being made

to appear, one or more of the plaintiffs or defendants, before the trial,

may state to the court, and make affidavit if the court require it, that

he or they claim, and shall rely upon, a right or title to the land under

a grant from a State, and produce the original grant, or an exempli-

fication of it, except where the loss of public records shall put it out of

his or their power, and shall move that any one or more ofthe adverse

party inform the court whether he or they claim a right or title to the land under a grant from some other State, the party or parties so required shall give such information, or otherwise not be allowed to plead such grant or give it in evidence upon the trial. If he or they inform the court that he or they do claim under such grant, any one

or more of the party moving for such information may then, on petition and bond, as hereinbefore mentioned in this chapter, remove the cause for trial to the district court of the United States next to be

holden in such district ; and any one of either party removing the

cause shall not be allowed to plead or give evidence of any other title

than that by him or them stated as aforesaid as the ground of his or

their claim .

Suitsinvolving civil rights.

SEC. 31. When any civil suit or criminal prosecution is commenced

S. ,sec. 641 ,p.115. in any State court, for any cause whatsoever, against any person who

Petition , etc.

is denied or can not enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State, or

in the part of the State where such suit or prosecution is pending, any

right secured to him by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States, or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States, or against any officer, civil or military, or other person, for any arrest or imprisonment or other trespasses or wrongs

made or committed by virtue of or under color of authority derived

from any law providing for equal rights as aforesaid, or for refusing to do any act on the ground that it would be inconsistent with such

law, such suit or prosecution may, upon the petition of such defendant, filed in said State court at any time before the trial or final hearing of the cause, stating the facts and verified by oath, be removed for trial into the next district court to be held in the district where

Stayof proceedings. it is pending. Upon the filing of such petition all further proceedings in the State courts shall cease, and shall not be resumed except as
Ball,etc. ,continued. hereinafter provided. But all bail and other security given in such

suit or prosecution shall continue in like force and effect as if the same

had proceeded to final judgment and execution in the State court.

inCgso.py of proceed- It shall be the duty of the clerk of the State court to furnish such

defendant, petitioning for a removal, copies of said process against

Procedure.

him, and of all pleadings, depositions, testimony, and other proceed-

ings in the case. If such copies are filed by said petitioner in the

district court on the first day of its session, the cause shall proceed

therein in the same manner as if it had been brought there by original

fuIrfnicslhecrokpireesf.uses to process ; and if the said clerk refuses or neglects to furnish such copies, the petitioner may thereupon docket the case in the district court, and the said court shall then have jurisdiction therein, and may, upon

proof of such refusal or neglect of said clerk, and upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, require the plaintiff to file a declaration, petiDismissal if petition, or complaint in the cause ; and, in case of his default, may order itelso,neetrc.fails to file cop- a nonsuit and dismiss the case at the costs of the plaintiff, and such dismissal shall be a bar to any further suit touching the matter in controversy. But if, without such refusal or neglect of said clerk to furnish such copies and proof thereof, the petitioner for removal fails

to file copies in the district court, as herein provided, a certificate, under the seal of the district court, stating such failure, shall be given,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1097

and upon the production thereof in said State court the cause shall

proceed therein as if no petition for removal had been filed.

SEC.

32.

When all

the acts

necessary for the removal of any suit or

Removal from custody of State court.

prosecution, as provided in thepreceding section, have been performed, R.S.,sec. 642, p. 116.

and the defendant petitioning for such removal is in actual custody on process issued by said State court, it shall be the duty of the clerk of

said district court to issue a writ of habeas corpus cum causa, and of the marshal, by virtue of said writ, to take the body-of the defendant

into his custody, to be dealt with in said district court according to law and the orders of said court, or, in vacation, of any judge thereof; and the marshal shall file with or deliver to the clerk of said State

court a duplicate copy of said writ. Actions involving
SEO. 33. When any civil suit or criminal prosecution is commenced United Statesrevenue

in any court of a State against any officer appointed under or acting laRw.sS.. 643, p. 116. by authority of any revenue law of the United States now or hereafter

enacted, or against any person acting under or by authority of any such officer, on account of any act done under color of his office or of any such law, or on account of any right, title, or authority claimed

by such officer or other person under any such law; or is commenced

against any person holding property or estate by title derived from

any such officer,

and

affects the validity

of any such revenue law;

or

Official Congress.

duties

for

when any suit is.commenced against any person for on account of any- Vol. 18, p.401.

thing done by him while an officer of either House of Congress in the

discharge of his official duty, in executing any order of such House, the said suit or prosecution may, at any time before the trial or final hearing thereof, be removed for trial into the district court next to be holden in the district where the same is pending, upon the petition of such defendant to said district court, and in the following manner:

Said petition shall set forth the nature of the suit or prosecution and Petition, etc. be verified by affidavit, and, together with a certificate signed by an attorney or counselor at law of some court of record of the State

where such suit or prosecution is commenced, or of the United States,

stating that, as.counsel for the petitioner, he has examined the proceedings against him and carefully inquired into all the matters set

forth in the petition, and that he believes them to be true; shall be presented to the said district court, if in session, or if it be not, to the clerk thereof at his office, and shall be filed in said office. The cause

shall thereupon be entered on the docket of the district court, and shall proceed as a cause originally commenced in that court; but all

bail and other security given upon such suit or prosecution shall con-
tinue in like force and effect as if the same had proceeded to final Certiorari to State
judgment and execution in the State court. When the suit is com- court for record, etc. menced in the State court by summons, subpoena, petition, or other
process except capias, the clerk of the district court shall issue a writ

of certiorari to the State court, requiring it to send to the district court the record and proceedings in the cause. When it is com- Capiasproceedings.

menced by capias or by any other similar form or proceeding by which a personal arrest is ordered, he shall issue a writ of habeas corpus cum causa, a duplicate of which shall be delivered to the clerk of the

State court, or left at his office, by the marshal of the district or his deputy, or by some person duly authorized thereto ; and thereupon it shall be the duty of the State court to stay all further proceedings in the cause, and the suit or prosecution, upon delivery of such process, or leaving the same as aforesaid, shall be held to be removed to

the district court, and any further proceedings, trial, or judgment therein in the State court shall be void. If the defendant in the suit Duty of marshal.

or prosecution be in actual custody on mesne process therein, it shall be the duty of the marshal, by virtue of the writ of habeas corpus cum causa, to take the body of the defendant into his custody, to be dealt with in the cause according to law and the order of the district

1098

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Duty ofplaintiff. court, or, in vacation, of any judge thereof; and if, upon the removal of such suit or prosecution, it is made to appear to the district court

that no copy of the record and proceedings therein in the State court can be obtained, the district court may allow and require the plaintiff to proceed de novo and to file a declaration of his cause of action, and the parties may thereupon proceed as in actions originally brought in said district court. On failure of the plaintiff so to proceed, judgment

of non prosequitur may be rendered against him, with costs for the defendant.

Removal of suits by aliens.

SEC. 34. Whenever a personal action has been or shall be brought

R. S., sec. 644, p. 117. in any State court by an alien against any citizen of a State who is,

or at the time the alleged action accrued was, a civil officer of the

United States, being a non-resident of that State wherein jurisdiction is obtained by the State court, by personal service of process, such action may be removed into the district court of the United States in and for the district in which the defendant shall have been served

with the process, in the same manner as now provided for the removal

of an action brought in a State court by the provisions of the preced-

ing section .

Proceedings on affdavit of record when

SEC. 35. In any case where a party is entitled to copies of the

copyrefusedbyclerk. records and proceedings in any suit or prosecution in a State court,

R.S.,sec. 645, p. 117. to be used in any court of the United States, if the clerk of said State court, upon demand, and the payment or tender of the legal fees, refuses or neglects to deliver to him certified copies of such records and proceedings, the court of the United States in which

such records and proceedings are needed may, on proof by affidavit that the clerk of said State court has refused or neglected to deliver copies thereof, on demand as aforesaid, direct such record to be supplied by affidavit or otherwise, as the circumstances of the case may require and allow; and thereupon such proceeding, trial, and judgment may be had in the said court of the United States, and all such

processes awarded, as if certified copies of such records and proceed-

ings had been regularly before the said court.

Attachments, etc., continued to await

SEC. 36. When any suit shall be removed from a State court to a

trial.

district court of the United States, any attachment or sequestration

RVo.l...1s8,ecp..644761,.p. 117. of the goods or estate of the defendant had in such suit in the State

court shall hold the goods or estate so attached or sequestered to

answer the final judgment or decree in the same manner as by law

they would have been held to answer final judgment or decree had it

been rendered by the court in which said suit was commenced. All

bonds, undertakings, or security given by either party in such suit

prior to its removal shall remain valid and effectual notwithstanding

said removal ; and all injunctions, orders, and other proceedings had

in such suit prior to its removal shall remain in full force and effect

until dissolved or modified by the court to which such suit shall be

removed.

Dismissal  re-

manding of suits not SEO. 37. If in any suit commenced in a district court, or removed

properly brought. Vol. 18, p. 472.

from a State court to a district court of the United States, it shall

appear to the satisfaction of the said district court, at any time after

such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does

not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said district court, or that the parties to said suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this chapter, the said district court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the

court from which it was removed, as justice may require, and shall

make such order as to costs as shall be just.

Proceedings in suits removed.

SEO. 38. The district court of the United States shall, in all suits

Vol. 18, p.472, removed under the provisions of this chapter, proceed therein as if

the suit had been originally commenced in said district court, and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911,

1099

the same proceedings had been taken in such suit in said district

court as shall have been had therein in said State court prior to its
removal. Punishmenttoclerk
SEC. 39. In all causes removable under this chapter, -if the clerk failing to furnish

of the State court in which any such cause shall be pending shall coVpoylo.f18r,epco. r4d7,2.etc. refuse to any one or more of the parties or persons applying to remove the same, a copy of the record therein, after tender of legal fees for such copy, said clerk so offending shall, on conviction thereof in the

district court of the United States to which said action or proceeding was removed, be fined not more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. The district court to which coCuerrtttioorraertiurtnoreSctoartde. any cause shall be removable under this chapter shall have power to issue a writ of certiorari to said State court commanding said State court to make return of the record in any such cause removed as aforesaid, or in which any one or more of the plaintiffs or defendants have complied with the provisions of this chapter for the removal of the same, and enforce said writ according to law. If it shall be impossible Ordertoprosecutor. for the parties or persons removing any cause under this chapter, or complying with the provisions for the removal thereof, to obtain such copy, for the reason that the clerk of said State court refuses to furnish a copy, on payment of legal fees, or for any other reason, the district court shall make an order requiring the prosecutor in

any such action or proceeding to enforce forfeiture or recover penalty,
as aforesaid, to file a copy of the paper or proceeding by which the same was commenced, within such time as the court may determine; ' and in default thereof the court shall dismiss the said action or pro-

ceeding; but if said order shall be complied with, then said district court shall require the other party to plead, and said action or proceeding shall proceed to final judgment: The said district court may make an order requiring the parties thereto to plead de novo ; and the bond given, conditioned as aforesaid, shall be discharged so far as it requires copy of the record to be filed as aforesaid.

Proceedings.

CHAPTER FOUR.

Chapter 4.

DISTRICT COURTS- -MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS .

District courts, miscellaneous provisions.

Sec.

Bec.

40. Capital cases; where triable.

56. When property lies in different States

41. Offenses on the high seas, etc. , where

in same circuit; jurisdiction of re-

triable.

ceiver.

42. Offenses begun in one district and 57. Absent defendants in suits to enforce

completed in another.

liens, remove clouds on titles, etc.

43. Suits for penalties and forfeitures, where brought.
44. Suits for internal-revenue taxes, where brought.
45. Seizures, where cognizable. 46. Capture of insurrectionary property,
where cognizable. 47. Certain seizures cognizable in any
district into which the property is taken. 48. Jurisdiction in patent cases.
49. Proceedings to enjoin Comptroller of the Currency.
50. When a part ofseveral defendants can not be served.
51. Civil suits; where to be brought. 52. Suits in States containing more than
one district.
53. Districts containing more than one division; where suit to be brought; transfer of criminal cases.
54. Suits of a local nature, where to be brought.
55. When property lies in. different districts in same State.

58. Civil causes may be transferred to another division of district by agree-
ment.
59. Upon creation of new district or divi-
sion, where prosecution to be instituted or action brought. 60. Creation ofnew district, or transfer of
territory not to divest lien; how lien to be enforced. 61. Commissioners to administer oaths to
appraisers . 62. Transfer of records to district court
when a Territory becomes a State. 63. District judge shall demand and com-
pel delivery of records of territorial court.
64. Jurisdiction of district courts in cases transferred from territorial courts.
65. Receivers to manage property according to State laws.
66. Suits against receiver. 67. Certain persons not to be appointed
or employed as officers of courts. 68. Certain persons not to be masters or
receivers.

1100

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Venue of capital

offenses.

SEC. 40. The trial of offenses punishable with death shall be had

R. S. , sec, 729, p.138. in the county where the offense was committed, where that can be

Offenses on high done without great inconvenience.

seas, etc.

SEO. 41. The trial of all offenses committed upon the high seas, or

R. S., sec. 730, p. 133. elsewhere out of the jurisdiction of any particular State or district, shall be in the district where the offender is found, or into which he

is first brought.

Offenses begun in one district and com-

SEO. 42. When any offense against the United States is begun in

pleted in another. one judicial district and completed in another, it shall be deemed to R. 8. , sec. 731 , p. 139. have been committed in either, and may be dealt with, inquired of,

tried, determined, and punished in either district, in the same man-

Suits for recoveries. ner as if it had been actually and wholly committed therein. R. S., sec. 732, p. 139. SEC. 43. All pecuniary penalties and forfeitures may be sued for
and recovered either in the district where they accrue or in the

district where the offender is found .

Internal revenue-

tax suits.

SEO. 44. Taxes accruing under any law providing internal revenue

R. S. , sec. 733, p. 139. may be sued for and recovered either in the district where the liabil-

ity for such tax occurs or in the district where the delinquent resides.

Seizures on high seas.

SEO. 45. Proceedings on seizures made on the high seas, for for-

R.S., sec. 734, p. 139. feiture under any law of the United States, may be prosecuted in

any district into which the property so seized is brought and pro-

ceedings instituted . Proceedings on such seizures made within any district shall be prosecuted in the district where the seizure is made,

except in cases where it is otherwise provided.

Condemnation of insurrectionary prop-

SEO. 46. Proceedings for the condemnation of any property cap-

erty.

tured, whether on the high seas or elsewhere out of the limits of

R. S. , sec. 735, p. 139. any judicial district, or within any district, on account of its being

purchased or acquired, sold or given, with intent to use or employ

the same, or to suffer it to be used or employed, in aiding, abetting,

or promoting any insurrection against the Government of the United

States, or knowingly so used or employed by the owner thereof,

or with his consent, may be prosecuted in any district where the

same may be seized, or into which it may be taken and proceedings

first instituted.

Forfeiture of property from section in

SEC. 47. Proceedings on seizures for forfeiture of any vessel or

insurrection, etc. cargo entering any port of entry which has been closed by the Presi-

R. S. , sec. 664, p. 96. dent in pursuance of law, or of goods and chattels coming from a

State or section declared by proclamation of the President to be

in insurrection into other parts of the United States, or of any vessel

or vehicle conveying such property, or conveying persons to or

from such State or section, or of any vessel belonging, in whole

or in part, to any inhabitant of such State or section, may be prose-

cuted in any district into which the property so seized may be taken and proceedings instituted ; and the district court thereof shall have

Patent suits. Vol. 29, p. 695.

as full jurisdiction over such proceedings as if the seizure was made in that district.
SEC. 48. In suits brought for the infringement of letters patent the district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction, in law

or in equity, in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant,

or in any district in which the defendant, whether a person, partner-

ship, or corporation, shall have committed acts of infringement and

have a regular and established place of business. If such suit is

brought in a district of which the defendant is not an inhabitant,

but in which such defendant has a regular and established place of

business, service of process, summons, or subpoena upon the defendant

may be made by service upon the agent or agents engaged in con-

ducting such business in the district in which suit is brought.

Proceedings to enJoin Comptroller of

SEO. 49. All proceedings by any national banking association to

Currency.

enjoin the Comptroller of the Currency, under the provisions of any

R. S. sec. 736,p. 139. law relating to national banking associations, shall be had in the

district where such association is located.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1101

SEO. 50. When there are several defendants in any suit at law or

Proceedings against veraldefendants.

in equity, and one or more of them are neither inhabitants of nor  R. &..sec.737,p. 189.

found within the district in which the suit is brought, and do not

voluntarily appear, the court may entertain jurisdiction, and pro-

ceed to the trial and adjudication of the suit between the parties who

are properly before it; but the judgment or decree rendered therein

shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not regularly served

with process nor voluntarily appearing to answer; and non-joinder of

parties who are not inhabitants of nor found within the district, as

aforesaid, shall not constitute matter of abatement or objection to

the suit.

SEO.

51.

Except

as

provided

in

the

five

succeeding

sections,

no

· Venue of civil suits. R. 8., sec. 7389,p. 140.

·

person shall be arrested in one district for trial in another, in any vol 25, p. 491.

civil action before a district court; and, except as provided in the

six succeeding sections, no civil suit shall be brought in any district

court against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where

thejurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is between
citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district
of the residence of either·the plaintiff or the defendant. SEO. 52. When a State contains more than one district, every suit inVgenmuoerienStthataenshoanve-

not of a. local nature, in the district court thereof, against a single district. defendant, inhabitant of such State, must be brought in the district R. 8., sec. 740, p. 140. where he resides ; but if there are two or more defendants, residing in

different districts of the State, it may be brought in either district, and a duplicate writ may be issued against the defendants, directed to the marshal of any other district in which any defendant resides.. The clerk issuing the duplicate writ shall indorse thereon that it is a

true copy of a writ sued out of the court of the proper district; and such original and duplicate writs, when executed and returned into

the office from which they issue, shall constitute and be proceeded on as one suit; and upon any judgment or decree rendered therein,

execution may be issued, directed to the marshal of any district in

the same State.

SEO.

53.

When a district contains more than one division,

every Districts containing more than one divi

suit not of a local nature against a single defendant must be brought sion.

in the division where he resides ; but if there are two or more defend-

ants residing in different divisions of the district it may be brought in either division. All mesne and final process subject to the pro-

visions of this section may be served and executed in any or all of

the divisions of the district, or if the State contains more than one

district, then in any of such districts, as provided in the preceding

section. All prosecutions for crimes or offenses shall be had within tioCnrsi.minal prosecu the division of such districts where the same were committed, unless

the court, or the judge thereof, upon the application of the defendant,

shall order the cause to be transferred for prosecution to another division of the district. When a transfer is ordered by the court or Transfer of record.

judge, all the papers in the case, or certified copies thereof, shall be

transmitted by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to the division

to which the cause is so ordered transferred ; and thereupon the cause

shall be proceeded with in said division in the same manner as if the offense had been committed therein. In all cases of the removal of StRateemcoouvrtasl. s from
suits from the courts of a State to the district court of the United

States such removal shall be to the United States district court in the

division in which the county is situated from which the removal is made; and the time within which the removal shall be perfected, in so far as it refers to or is regulated by the terms of United States courts, shall be deemed to refer to the terms of the United States district court in such division.

1102-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Suits of a local nature.

SEC. 54. In suits of a local nature, where the defendant resides in

R. 8. , sec. 741 , p. 140. a different district, in the same State, from that in which the suit is

brought, the plaintiffmay have original and final process against him, directed to the marshal of the district in which he resides. Jurisdiction where SEC. 55. Any suit of a local nature, at law or in equity, where the property liespartly in land or other subject-matter of a fixed character lies partly in one

district and partly in another, within the same State, may be brought in the district court of either district ; and the court in which it is

brought shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide it, and to cause

mesne or final process to be issued and executed, as fully as if the

said subject-matter were wholly within the district for which such

court is constituted.

Authority of receiver of property

SEC. 56. Where in any suit in which a receiver shall be appointed

lying in different the land or other property of a fixed character, the subject of the

States.

suit, lies within different States in the same judicial circuit, the re-

ceiver so appointed shall, upon giving bond as required by the court,

immediately be vested with full jurisdiction and control over all the

juAdpgper.oval by circuit property, the subject of the suit, lying or being within such circuit ; subject, however, to the disapproval of such order, within thirty

days thereafter, by the circuit court of appeals for such circuit, or

by a circuit judge thereof, after reasonable notice to adverse parties

and an opportunity to be heard upon the motion for such disapproval ;

and subject, also, to the filing and entering in the district court for each district of the circuit in which any portion of the property may

lie or be, within ten days thereafter, of a duly certified copy of the

proEvfafle. ct of disap- bill and of the order of appointment. The disapproval of such appointment within such thirty days, or the failure to file such certi-

fied copy of the bill and order of appointment within ten days, as

herein required, shall divest such receiver of jurisdiction over all

such property except that portion thereof lying or being within the

witIhssiuneciorfcupitr. ocess State in which the suit is brought. In any case coming within the provisions of this section, in which a receiver shall be appointed,
· process may issue and be executed within any district of the circuit

in the same manner and to the same extent as if the property were wholly within the same district; but orders affecting such property

shall be entered of record in each district in which the property

affected may lie or be.

Absent defendants in suits to enforce

SEO. 57. When in any suit commenced in any district court of the

lens, clear titles, etc. United States to enforce any legal or equitable lien upon or claim to,

p.R1.40S..,secs. 725, 742, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real

or personal property within the district where such suit is brought, one or more of the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of or

found within the said district, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto,

it shall be lawful for the court to make an order directing such absent

defendant or defendants to appear, plead, answer, or demur by a day certain to be designated, which order shall be served on such absent

defendant or defendants, if practicable, wherever found , and also upon

the person or persons in possession or charge of said property, if any
there be; or where such personal service upon such absent defendant or defendants is not practicable, such order shall be published in such manner as the court may direct, not less than once a week for six con-
urPertoocaepedpienagrs. on fail. Secutive weeks. In case such absent defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur within the time so limited , or within some

further time, to be allowed by the court, in its discretion, and upon proof of the service or publication of said order and of the performance of the directions contained in the same, it shall be lawful for the

court to entertain jurisdiction , and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit in the same manner as if such absent defendant had

been served with process within the said district ; but said adjudication shall, as regards said absent defendant or defendants without

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.-

1103

appearance, affect only the property which shall have been the sub-

ject of the suit and under the jurisdiction of the court therein, within such district; and when a part of the said real or personal property

against which such proceedings shall be taken shall be within another

district, but within the same State, such suit may be brought in either

district in said State: Provided, however, That any defendant or

Proviso. Time for appear

defendants not actually personally notified as above provided may, ance ifnotpersonally notified.

at any time within one year after final judgment in any suit mentioned in this section, enter his appearance in said suit in said district 22

court, and thereupon the said court shall make an order setting aside

the judgment therein and permitting said defendant or defendants to plead therein on payment by him or them of such costs as the court
shall deem just; and thereupon said suit shall be proceeded with to
final judgment according to law. SEO. 58. Any civil cause, at law or in equity, may, on written Transfers by agree- ment.
stipulation of the parties or of their attorneys of record signed and Vol. 34, p. 206.

filed with the papers in the case, in vacation or in term, and on the written order of the judge signed and filed in the case in vacation or on the order of the court duly entered of record in term, be transferred

to the court of any other division of the same district, without regard to the residence of the defendants, for trial. When a cause shall be miptatpeedr.s to be trans-

ordered to be transferred to a court in any other division, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court from which the transfer is made to
carefully transmit to the clerk of the court to which the transfer is made the entire file of papers in the cause and all documents and deposits in his court pertaining thereto, together with a certified

Transcriptof record.

transcript of the records of all orders, interlocutory decrees, or other
entries in the cause ; and he shall certify, under the seal of the court;
that the papers sent are all which are on file in said court belonging to the cause; for the performance of which duties said clerk so transmit-

Fees taxed as costs.

ting and certifying shall receive the same fees as are now allowed by law for similar services, to be taxed in the bill of costs, and regularly
collected with the other costs in the cause; and such transcript, when so certified and received, shall henceforth constitute a part of the record of the cause in the court to which the transfer shall be made.

The clerk receiving such transcript and original papers shall file the same and the case shall then proceed to final disposition as other cases of a like nature.
SEO. 59. Whenever any new district or division has been or shall ,tiPornoocfednuerwe doinstrcircetas-, be established, or any county or territory has been or shall be trans- etc. ferred from one district or division to another district or division, prosecutions for crimes and offenses committed within such district, division, county, or territory prior to such transfer, shall be commenced

and proceeded with the same as if such new district or division had not been created, or such county or territory had not been transferred,
unless the court, upon the application of the defendant, shall order the cause to be removed to the new district or division for trial.

Civil actions pending at the time of the creation of any such district or division, or the transfer of any such county or territory, and arising within the district or division so created or the county or territory so transferred, shall be tried in the district or division as it existed at the time of the institution of the action, or in the district

or division so created, or to which the county or territory is or shall

be so transferred, as may be agreed upon by the parties, or as the
court shall direct. The transfer of such prosecutions and actions shall be made in the manner provided in the section last preceding.
SEC. 60. The creation of a new district or division, or the transfer of feLciteedns,beytc.n,enwotdaifs any county or territory from one district or division to another district tricts, etc.

or division, shall not affect or divest any lien theretofore acquired in the circuit or district court by virtue of a decree, judgment, execu-

1104

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.231 . 1911.

tion, attachment, seizure, or otherwise, upon property situated or

Enforcement.

being within the district or division so created, or the county or territory so transferred. To enforce any such lien, the clerk of the

court in which the same is acquired, upon the request and at the cost of the party desiring the same, shall make a true and certified

copy of the record thereof, which, when so made and certified, and filed in the proper court of the district or division in which such property is situated or shall be, after such transfer, shall constitute

the record of such lien in such court, and shall be evidence in all

courts and places equally with the original thereof; and thereafter like proceedings shall be had thereon, and with the same effect, as though the cause or proceeding had been originally instituted in such

court. The provisions of this section shall apply not only in all

cases where a district or division is created, or a county or any terri-

tory is transferred by this or any future Act, but also in all cases where a district or division has been created, or a county or any territory

has been transferred by any law heretofore enacted. Commissioners to
administer oaths to SEC. 61. Any district judge may appoint commissioners, before

appraisers.

whom appraisers of vessels or goods and merchandise seized for

R. S., sec. 570, p. 97. breaches of any law of the United States, may be sworn; and such

oaths, so taken, shall be as effectual as if taken before the judge in

open court.

Transfer of Territorial court's records

SEO. 62. When any Territory is admitted as a State, and a district

on admission as a court is established therein, all the records of the proceedings in the
State. R. S., sec. 667, p. 97. several cases pending in the highest court of said Territory at the

time of such admission, and all records of the proceedings in the

several cases in which judgments or decrees had been rendered in said

territorial court before that time, and from which writs of error could

have been sued out or appeals could have been taken, or from which

writs of error had been sued out or appeals had been taken and prose-

cuted to the Supreme Court or to the circuit court of appeals, shall be

transferred to and deposited in the district court for the said State. Enforcing transfer. SEO. 63. It shall be the duty of the district judge, in the case pro-

R. 8. ,sec. 663, p. 97. vided in the preceding section, to demand of the clerk, or other per-

son having possession or custody of the records therein mentioned,

the delivery thereof, to be deposited in said district court; and in case

of the refusal of such clerk or person to comply with such demand,

the said district judge shall compel the delivery of such records by

attachment or otherwise, according to law.

Cognizance of pending cases.

SEO. 64. When any Territory is admitted as a State, and a district

". S., sec. 569, p. 97. Court is established therein, the said district court shall take cogni-

zance of all cases which were pending and undetermined in the trial

courts of such Territory, from the judgments or decrees to be rendered in which writs of error could have been sued out or appeals

taken to the Supreme Court or to the circuit court of appeals, and
shall proceed to hear and determine the same. Receivers to manage property accord- SEC. 65. Whenever in any cause pending in any court ofthe United ing to State laws. States there shall be a receiver or manager in possession of any propVol. 25, p. 436.
erty, such receiver or manager shall manage and operate such property
according to the requirements of the valid laws of the State in which

such property shall be situated, in the same manner that the owner

or possessor thereof would be bound to do if in possession thereof. Any receiver or manager who shall willfully violate any provision of this section shall be fined not more than three thousand dollars, or

Suits

against

imprisoned not more than one year, or both. re-

ceivers.

SEO. 66. Every receiver or manager of any property appointed by

Vol. 25, p. 436.

any court of the United States may be sued in respect of any act or

transaction of his in carrying on the business connected with such

property, without the previous leave of the court in which such

receiver or manager was appointed; but such suit shall be subject

to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in which such manager

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS, III. CH. 231. 1911.

1105

or receiver was appointed so far as the same may be necessary to the ends of justice.
SEO. 67. No person shall be appointed to or employed in any office quRaleilfaytiingonosffhiicipalsd.isor duty in any court who is related by affinity or consanguinity Vol.25, p. 437. within the degree of first cousin to the judge of such court.
SEO. 68. No clerk of a district court of the United States or his poRiensttirnigcrteicoenivoerns,eatpc-. deputy shall be appointed a receiver or master in any case, except where the judge of said court shall determine that special reasons exist therefor, to be assigned in the order of appointment.

CHAPTER FIVE.

Chapter 5.

DISTRICT COURTS- DISTRICTS, AND PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR STATES.

Judicial districts.

Bec.
69. Judicial districts. 70. Alabama. 71. Arkansas. 72. California. 73. Colorado.
74. Connecticut. 75. Delaware. 76. Florida.
77. Georgia. 78. Idaho. 79. Illinois. 80. Indiana. 81. Iowa. 82. Kansas.
83. Kentucky. 84. Louisiana. 85. Maine.
86. Maryland. 87. Massachusetts. 88. Michigan. 89. Minnesota.
90. Mississippi. 91. Missouri. 92. Montana.

Bec.
93. Nebraska. 94. Nevada. 95. New Hampshire. 96. New Jersey. 97. New York. 98. North Carolina. 99. North Dakota. 100. Ohio. 101. Oklahoma.
102. Oregon. 103. Pennsylvania. 104. Rhode Island. 105. South Carolina. 106. South Dakota. 107. Tennessee. 108. Texas. 109. Utah. 110. Vermont.
111. Virginia, 112. Washington. 113. West Virginia. 114. Wisconsin. 115. Wyoming.

SEO. 69. The United States are divided into judicial districts as follows :
SEC. 70. The State of Alabama is divided into three judicial districts, to be known as the northern, middle, and southern districts of Alabama. The northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Cullman, Jackson, Lawrence, Limestone, Madison, and Morgan, which shall constitute the northeastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Colbert, Franklin, and Lauderdale, which shall constitute the northwestern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Cherokee, De Kalb, Etowah, Marshall, and Saint Clair, which shall constitute the middle division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Blount, Jefferson, and Shelby, which shall constitute the southern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last men tioned in the counties of Walker, Winston, Marion, Fayette, and Lamar, which shall constitute the Jasper division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Calhoun, Clay, Cleburne, and Talladega, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bibb, Greene, Pickens, Sumter, and Tuscaloosa, which shall constitute the western division

Division of States. B. S., sec. 530, p. 89.
Alabama. R. 8., sec. 533, p. 89.
Northern district. Divisions.

1106

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS: III. CH. 231. 1911.

Terms.

of said district. Terms of the district court for the northeastern division shall be held at Huntsville on the first Tuesday in April

and the second Tuesday in October; for the northwestern division,

at Florence on the second Tuesday in February and the third Tues-

Provisos. Rooms at Florence.

day

in

October: Provided,

That

suitable

rooms

and

accommoda-

tions for holding court at Florence shall be furnished free of expense

to the Government; for the middle division, at Gadsden on the

Rooms at Gadsden. first Tuesdays in February and August: Provided, That suitable

rooms and accommodations for the holding court at Gadsden shall

be furnished free of expense to the Government; for the southern

division, at Birmingham on the first Mondays in March and Sep-

tember, which courts shall remain in session for the transaction of

business at least six months in each calendar year; for the Jasper

Rooms atJasper.

division, at Jasper on the second Tuesdays in January and June:
Provided, That suitable rooms, and accommodations for holding court at Jasper shall be furnished free of expense to the Government ;

Offices.

for the eastern division, at Anniston on the first Mondays in May and November; and for the western division, at Tuscaloosa on the first Tuesdays in January and June. The clerk of the court for the northern district shall maintain, an office in charge of himself or a

deputy at Anniston, at Florence, at Jasper, and at Gadsden, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of

Middle district. Divisions.

said court. The district judge for the northern district shall reside at Birmingham. The middle district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Autauga, Barbour, Bullock, Butler, Chilton, Chambers, Coosa, Covington, Crenshaw, Elmore, Lee, Lowndes, Macon, Montgomery, Pike, Randolph, Russell, and Tallapoosa, which shall con-

Terms.

stitute the northern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Coffee, Dale, Geneva, Henry, and Houston, which shall constitute the southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the

Offices.
Southern district. Divisions.

northern division shall be held at Montgomery on the first Tuesdays in May and December; and . for the southern division, at Dothan on the first Mondays in June and December. The clerk for the middle district shall maintain an office, in charge of himself or a deputy, at Dothan, which shall be open at all times for the transaction of the business of said division. The southern district shall include
the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Baldwin, Choctaw, Clarke, Conecuh, Escambia,

Terms.

Mobile, Monroe, and Washington, which shall constitute the southern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Dallas, Hale, Marengo, Perry, and Wilcox, which shall constitute the northern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the southern division shall

be held at Mobile on the fourth Mondays in May and November;

and for the northern division, at Selma on the first Mondays in May

and November.

Arkansas. R. S., sec. 633. p. 89.

SEC. 71. The State of Arkansas is divided into two districts, to be

Western district. known as the eastern and western districts of Arkansas. The western

Divisions.

district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July,

nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Sevier, Howard, Little

River, Pike, Hempstead, Miller, Lafayette, Columbia, Nevada, Ouachita, Union, and Calhoun, which shall constitute the Texarkana

Terms,

division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Polk, Scott, Yell, Logan, Sebastian, Franklin, Crawford, Washington, Benton, and Johnson, which shall constitute the Fort Smith division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Baxter, Boone, Carroll, Madison, Marion, Newton, and Searcy, which shall constitute the Harrison' division of said district. Terms of the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1107

district-court for the Texarkana division shall be held at Texarkana

on the second Mondays in May and November; for the Fort Smith

division, at Fort Smith on the second Mondays in January and June;

and for the Harrison division, at Harrison on the second Mondays in

April and October. The eastern district shall include the territory Eastern district. embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the Divisions.

counties of Lee, Phillips, Saint Francis, Cross, Monroe, and Woodruff, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of

Independence, Cleburne, Stone, Izard, Sharp, and Jackson, which shall constitute the northern division of said district; also the terri-

tory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Critten-

den, Clay, Craighead, Greene, Mississippi, Poinsett, Fulton, Randolph, and Lawrence, which shall constitute the Jonesboro division

of said district; and also the territory embraced . on the date last

mentioned in the counties of Arkansas, Ashley, Bradley, Chicot, Clark, Cleveland, Conway, Dallas, Desha, Drew, Faulkner, Garland, Grant, Hot Spring, Jefferson, Lincoln, Lonoke, Montgomery, Perry, Pope, Prairie, Pulaski, Saline, Van Buren, and White, which shall constitute the western division of said district. Terms of the district

Terms.

court for the eastern division shall be held at Helena on the second

Monday in March and the first Monday in October ; for the northern

division, at Batesville on the fourth Monday in May and the second

Monday in December ; for the Jonesboro division, at Jonesboro on

the second Mondays in May and November; and for the western division, at Little Rock on the first Monday in April and the third Monday in October. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Little Rock, at Helena, at Jonesboro, and at Batesville, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. And the clerk of the court for the western district shall maintain an

Ofices.

office in charge of himself or a deputy at Fort Smith, at Harrison,

and at Texarkana, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court.

SEO. 72. The State of California is divided into two districts, to be CVaolli.f2o4r,npia..308. known as the northern and southern districts of California. The SDiovuitshieornns.district. southern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day

of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Fresno, Inyo, Kern, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, and Tulare, which shall con-

stitute the northern division of said district; also the territory em-' braced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Imperial, Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura, which shall constitute the southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the

Terms.

northern division shall be held at Fresno on the first Monday in May

and the second Monday in November; and for the southern division,

at Los Angeles, on the second Monday in January and the second Monday in July, and at San Diego on the second Mondays in March

and September. The northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alameda, Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa, Contra Costa, Del Norte, El Dorado, Glenn, Humboldt, Lake, Lassen,

NDiovritshieornsn.district.

Marin, Mendocino, Modoc, Mono, Monterey, Napa, Nevada, Placer,.

Plumas, Sacramento, San Benito, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano,

Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Tuolumne, Yolo, and Terms. Yuba. Terms of the district court for the northern district shall be

held at San Francisco on the first Monday in March, the second Mon-

day in July, and the first Monday in November; at Sacramento on

the second Monday in April; and at Eureka on the third Monday in July.

1108

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Colorado.
Vol. 19, p. 61. Terms.

SEC. 73. The State of Colorado shall constitute one judicial district, to be known as the district of Colorado . Terms of the district court

shall be held at Denver on the first Tuesdays in May and November;

at Pueblo on the first Tuesday in April ; and at Montrose on the sec-

ond Tuesday in September.

Connecticut. R. 8., sec. 531, p. 89.

SEO. 74. The State of Connecticut shall constitute_one judicial

Terms

district, to be known as the district of Connecticut. Terms of the

district court shall be held at New Haven on the fourth Tuesdays in

February and September, and at Hartford on the fourth Tuesday in

Delaware.

May and the first Tuesday in December.

R. S., sec. 531, p. 89. SEO. 75. The State of Delaware shall constitute one judicial district,

Terms.

to be known as the district of Delaware. Terms of the district court

shall be held at Wilmington on the second Tuesdays in March, June,
September, and December. Florida. R. S., sec. 534, p. 90. SEC. 76. The State of Florida is divided into two districts, to be Southern district. known as the northern and southern districts of Florida. The south-

Terms.

ern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Baker, Bradford, Brevard, Citrus, Clay, Columbia, Dade, De Soto, Duval, Hamilton, Hernando, Hillsboro, Lake, Lee, Madison, Manatee, Marion, Monroe, Nassau, Orange, Osceola, Palm Beach, Pasco, Polk, Putnam, Saint John, Sumter, Suwanee, Saint Lucie, and Volusia. Terms of the district court for the southern district shall be held at Ocala on the

third Monday in January; at Tampa on the second Monday in February; at Key West on the first Mondays in May and November;

Northern district. Terms. )

at Jacksonville on the first Monday in December; at Fernandina on the first Monday in April ; and at Miami on the fourth Monday in April. The district court for the southern district shall be open at all times for the purpose of hearing and deciding causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. The northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alachua, Calhoun, Escambia, Franklin, Gadsden, Holmes, Jackson, Jefferson, Lafayette, Leon, Levy, Liberty, Santa Rosa, Taylor, Wakulla, Walton, and Washington. Terms of the district court for the northern district shall be held at Tallahassee

on the second Monday in January; at Pensacola on the first Mondays

in May and November; at Marianna on the first Monday in April;

and at Gainesville on the second Mondays in June and December.

Georgia .

B. 8., sec. 535, p. 90. SEC. 77. The State of Georgia is divided into two districts, to be

Northern district. Divisions.

known as the northern and southern districts of Georgia.

The north-

ern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of

July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Campbell, Carroll,

Clayton, Cobb, Coweta, Cherokee, Dekalb, Douglas, Dawson, Fan-

nin, Fayette, Fulton, Forsyth, Gilmer, Gwinnett, Hall, Henry, Lumpkin, Milton, . Newton, Pickens, Rockdale, Spalding, Towns,

and Union, which shall constitute the northern division of said dis-

trict; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the

counties of Banks, Clarke, Elbert, Franklin, Greene, Habersham, Hart, Jackson, Morgan, Madison, Oglethorpe, Oconee, Rabun, Stephens, Walton, and White, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date

Terms,

last mentioned in the counties of Chattahoochee, Clay, Early, Harris, Heard, Meriwether, Marion, Muscogee, Quitman, Randolph, Schley, Stewart, Talbot, Taylor, Terrell, Troup, and Webster, which shall constitute the western division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bartow, Chattooga, Catoosa, Dade, Floyd, Gordon, Haralson, Murray, Paulding, Polk, Walker, and Whitfield, which shall constitute the northwestern division of said district. Terms of the district court for northern division of said district shall be held at Atlanta on the second Monday

in March and the first Monday in October ; for the eastern division,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 . 2

1109

at Athens on the second Monday in April and the first Monday in November; for the western division, at Columbus on the first Mondays in May and December; and for the northwestern division, at Rome on the third Mondays in May and November. The clerk of the court for the northern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Athens, at Columbus, and at Rome, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The southern district shall include the territory embraced on the said first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Appling, Bulloch, Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Emanuel, Effingham, Glynn, Jeff Davis, Liberty, Montgomery, McIntosh, Screven, Tatnall, Toombs, and Wayne, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Baldwin, Bibb, Butts, Crawford, Dodge, Dooly, Hancock, Houston, Jasper, Jones, Laurens, Macon, Monroe, Pike, Pulaski, Putnam, Sumter, Telfair, Twiggs, Upson, Wilcox, and Wilkinson, which shall constitute the western division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Burke, Columbia, Glascock, Jefferson, Jenkins, Johnson, Lincoln, McDuffie, Richmond, Taliaferro, Washington, Wilkes, and Warren, which shall constitute the northeastern division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Berrien, Brooks, Charlton, Clinch, Coffee, Decatur, Echols, Grady, Irwin, Lowndes, Pierce, and Ware, which shall constitute the southwestern division; and also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Baker, Ben Hill,- Calhoun, Crisp, Colquitt, Dougherty, Lee, Miller, Mitchell, Thomas, Tift, Turner, and Worth, which shall constitute the Albany division. Terms of the district court for the western division shall be held at

offices. SDoivuitshieornns.district.
Terms.

Macon on the first Mondays in May and October; for the eastern division, at Savannah on the second Tuesdays in February, May, August, and November; for the northeastern division, at Augusta on the first Monday in April and the third Monday in November; for the southwestern division, at Valdosta on the second Mondays in June and December; and for the Albany division, at Albany on the third Mondays in June and December.
SEO. 78. The State of Idaho shall constitute one . judicial district, to be known as the district of Idaho. It is divided into four divisions, to be known as the northern, central, southern, and eastern divisions. The territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bonner, Kootenai, and Shoshone, shall constitute the northern division of said district; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Idaho, Latah, and Nez Perce, shall constitute the central division of said district; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Ada, Boise, Blaine, Cassia, Twin Falls, Canyon, Elmore, Lincoln, Owyhee, and Washington, shall constitute the southern division of said district; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bannock, Bear Lake, Bingham, Custer, Fremont, Lemhi, and Oneida, shall constitute the eastern division of said district.´´ Terms of the district court for the
northern division of said district shall be held at Coeur d'Alene City on the fourth Monday in May and the third Monday in November; for the central division, at Moscow on the second Monday in May and the first- Monday in November; for the southern division, at Boise City on the second Mondays in February and September; and for the eastern division, at Pocatello on the second Mondays in March and October. The clerk of the court shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Coeur d'Alene City, at Moscow, at Boise City, and at Pacatello, which shall be open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court.

IVdoalh. 2o6. , p. 217. Divisions.
Terms. Offices.

·` 88740° --VOL 36, FT 1-11-72 °.

1110

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Dlinois.

R. S., sec. 536, p. 90. SEC. 79. The State of Illinois is divided into three districts, to be

Northern district. Divisions.

known as the northern, southern, and eastern districts of Illinois.

The northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first

day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Cook, Dekalb, Dupage, Grundy, Kane, Kendall, Lake, Lasalle, McHenry, and Will, which shall constitute the eastern division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Boone,

Terms. Offices.

Carroll, Jo Daviess, Lee, Ogle, Stephenson, Whiteside, and Winnebago, which shall constitute the western division. Terms of the district court for the eastern division shall be held at Chicago on the first Mondays in February, March, April, May, June, July, September, October, and November, and the third Monday in December; and for the western division, at Freeport on the third Mondays in April and October. The clerk of the court for the northern district shall main-

tain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Chicago and at Freeport, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The marshal for the northern district shall maintain an office in the division in which he himself does not

Southern district. Divisions.

reside, and shall appoint at least one deputy who shall reside therein. The southern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bureau,

Terms.

Fulton, Henderson, Henry, Knox, Livingston, McDonough, Marshall, Mercer, Putnam, Peoria, Rock Island, Stark, Tazewell, Warren, and Woodford, which shall constitute the northern division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Adams, Bond, Brown, Calhoun, Cass, Christian, Dewitt, Greene, Hancock, Jersey, Logan, McLean, Macon, Macoupin, Madison, Mason, Menard, Montgomery, Morgan, Pike, Sangamon,. Schuyler, and Scott, which shall constitute the southern division. Terms of the district court for the northern division shall be held at Peoria on

the third Mondays in April and October; for the southern division,

Offices.

at Springfield on the first Mondays in January and June, and at Quincy on the first Mondays in March and September. The clerk of the court for the southern district shall maintain an office in charge

of himself or adeputy at Peoria, at Springfield, and at Quincy, which
shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The marshal for said southern district shall appoint at

least one deputy residing in the said northern division, who shall Eastern district. maintain an office at Peoria. The eastern district shall include the

Terms.

territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alexander, Champaign, Clark, Clay, Clinton, Coles, Crawford, Cumberland, Douglas, Edgar, Edwards, Effingham, Fayette, Ford, Franklin, Gallatin, Hamilton, Hardin, Iroquois, Jackson, Jasper, Jefferson, Johnson, Kankakee, Lawrence, Marion, Massac, Monroe, Moultrie, Perry, Piatt, Pope, Pulaski, Randolph, Richland, Saint Clair, Saline, Shelby, Union, Vermilion, Wabash, Washington, Wayne, White, and Williamson. Terms of the district court for the eastern district shall be held at Danville on the first

Mondays in March and September; at Cairo on the first Mondays in

Offices.
Indiana. R. 8., sec.531, p.89. Terms.

April and October; and at East Saint Louis on the first Mondays in May and November. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Danville, at Cairo, and at East Saint Louis, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court, and shall there keep the records, files, and documents pertaining to the court at that place.
SEO. 80. The State of Indiana shall constitute one judicial district, to be known as the district of Indiana. Terms of the district court

shall be held at Indianapolis on the first Tuesdays in May and November; at New Albany on the first Mondays in January and July; at Evansville on the first Mondays in April and October; at Fort Wayne

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1111

on the second , Tuesdays in June and December; and at Hammond

on the third Tuesdays in April and October. The clerk of the court shall appoint four deputy clerks, one of whom shall reside and keep his office at New Albany, one at Evansville, one at Fort Wayne, and one at Hammond. Each deputy shall keep in his office full records of all actions and proceedings of the district court held at that place.
SEC. 81. The State of Iowa is divided into two judicial districts, to be known as the northern and southern districts of Iowa. The
northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first

ofices.
Iowa. sec. 637, p. 90.
NDiovritshieornsn. district.

day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Allamakee, Dubuque, Buchanan, Clayton, Delaware, Fayette, Winneshiek, Howard, Chickasaw, Bremer, Blackhawk, Floyd, Mitchell, and Jackson, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also

the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Jones, Cedar, Linn, Johnson, Iowa, Benton, Tama, Grundy, and

Hardin, which shall constitute the Cedar Rapids division; also the

territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Emmet, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Calhoun, Kossuth, Humboldt,

Webster, Winnebago, Hancock, Wright, Hamilton, Worth,. Cerro Gordo, Franklin, and Butler, which shall constitute the central division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in

the counties of Dickinson, Clay, Buena Vista, Sac, Osceola, O'Brien,

Cherokee, Ida, Lyon, Sioux, Plymouth, Woodbury, and Monona, which shall constitute the western division. Terms of the district Terms.

court for the eastern division shall be held at Dubuque on the fourth

Tuesday in April and the first Tuesday in December, and at Waterloo

on the second Tuesdays in May and September; for the Cedar Rapids division, at Cedar Rapids on the first Tuesday in April and the fourth

Tuesday in September; for the central division, at Fort Dodge on the second Tuesdays in June and November; and for the western division, at Sioux City on the fourth Tuesday in May and the third

Tuesday in October. The southern district shall include the territory DSiovuitshieornns.district. embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the
counties of Louisa, Henry, Des Moines, Lee, and Van Buren, which

shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Marshall,

Story, Boone, Greene, Guthrie, Dallas, Polk, Jasper, Poweshiek, Marion, Warren, and Madison, which shall constitute the central division of said . district; also the territory embraced on the date

last mentioned in the counties of Carroll, Crawford, Harrison, Shelby, Audubon, Cass, Pottawattamie, Mills,. and Montgomery, which shall

constitute the western division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Adair, Adams,

Clarke, Decatur, Fremont, Lucas, Page, Ringgold, Taylor, Union, and Wayne, which shall constitute the southern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the. date last mentioned

in the counties of Scott, Muscatine, Washington, and Clinton, which shall constitute the Davenport division of said district ; also the

territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Davis, Appanoose, Mahaska, Keokuk, Jefferson, Monroe, and Wapello, which shall constitute the Ottumwa division of said district, Terms of the district court for the eastern division shall be held at

Terms.

Keokuk on the second Tuesday in April and the third Tuesday in

October; for the central division, at Des Moines on the second

Tuesday in May and the third Tuesday in November; for the western division, at Council Bluffs on the second Tuesday in March and the

third Tuesday in September; for the southern division, at Creston on the fourth Tuesday in March and the first Tuesday in November;

for the Davenport division, at Davenport on the fourth Tuesday in

1112

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Offices.

April and the first Tuesday in October; and for the Ottumwa division, at Ottumwa on the first Monday after the fourth Tuesday in March, and the first Monday after the third Tuesday in October. The clerk of the court for said district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Davenport and at Ottumwa, for the transac-

Kansas.

tion of the business of said divisions.

R. S., sec. 531, p. 89. SEC. 82. The State of Kansas shall constitute one judicial district,

Divisions.

to be known as the district of Kansas. It is divided into three divi-

sions, to be known as the first, second, and third divisions of the

district of Kansas. The first division shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the

counties of Atchison, Brown, Chase, Cheyenne, Clay, Cloud , Decatur,

Dickinson, Doniphan, Douglas, Ellis, Franklin, Geary,Gove, Graham,

Jackson, Jefferson, Jewell, Johnson, Leavenworth, Lincoln, Logan,

Lyon, Marion, Marshall, Mitchell, Morris, Nemaha, Norton, Osage,

Osborne, Ottawa, Phillips, Pottawatomie, Rawlins, Republic, Riley, Rooks, Russell, Saline, Shawnee, Sheridan, Sherman, Smith, Thomas,

Trego, Wabaunsee, Wallace, Washington, and Wyandotte. The sec-

ond division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties ofBarber, Barton, Butler, Clark, Comanche,

Cowley, Edwards, Ellsworth, Finney, Ford, Grant, Gray, Greeley,

Hamilton, Harper, Harvey, Hodgeman, Haskell, Kingman, Kiowa,

Kearny, Lane, McPherson, Morton, Meade, Ness, Pratt, Pawnee,

Reno, Rice, Rush, Scott, Sedgwick, Stafford, Stevens, Seward, Sumner, Stanton, and Wichita. The third division shall include the ter-

ritory embraced on the said date last mentioned in the counties of

Allen, Anderson, Bourbon, Cherokee, Coffey, Chautauqua, Crawford,

Terms.

Elk, Greenwood, Labette, Linn, Miami, Montgomery, Neosho, Wilson, and Woodson. Terms of the district court for the first division shall

be held at Leavenworth on the second Monday in October; at Topeka

on the second Monday in April ; at Kansas City on the second Monday in January and the first Monday in October; and at Salina on the

second Monday in May; but no cause, action, or proceeding shall be

tried or considered at any term held at Salina unless by consent of all the parties thereto, or by order of the court for cause. Terms of

the district court for the second division shall be held at Wichita on

the second Mondays in March and September; and for the third

Offices.

division, at Fort Scott on the first Monday in May and the second Monday in November. The clerk of the district court shall appoint two deputies, one of whom shall reside, and keep his office at Fort

Kentucky. Vol. 31, p. 781. Eastern district.

Scott, and the other at Wichita ; and the marshal shall appoint a deputy who shall reside and keep his office at Fort Scott.
SEO. 83. The State of Kentucky is divided into two districts, to be known as the eastern and western districts of Kentucky. The eastern

district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July,

nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Carroll, Trimble, Henry,

Shelby, Anderson, Mercer, Boyle, Gallatin, Boone, Kenton, Camp--

bell, Pendleton, Grant, Owen, Franklin, Bourbon, Scott, Woodford,

Fayette, Jessamine, Garrard, Madison, Lincoln, Rockcastle, Pulaski, Wayne, Whitley, Bell, Knox, Harlan, Laurel, Clay, Leslie, Letcher, Perry, Owsley, Jackson, Estill, Lee, Breathitt, Knott, Pike, Floyd, Magoffin, Martin, Johnson, Lawrence, Boyd, Greenup, Carter, Elliott,

Terms.

Morgan, Wolfe, Powell, Menifee, Clark, Montgomery, Bath, Rowan, Lewis, Fleming, Mason, Bracken, Robertson, Nicholas, and Harrison, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for the

eastern district shall be held at Frankfort, on the second Monday in

March and the fourth Monday in September; at Covington on the first Monday in April and the third Monday in October; at Richmond

on the fourth Monday in April and the second Monday in November; at London on the second Monday in May and the fourth

Monday in November; at Catlettsburg on the fourth Monday in May

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1113

and the second Monday in December; and at Jackson on the first Monday in March and the third Monday in September: Provided, That suitable rooms and accommodations are furnished for holding court at Jackson free of expense to the Government until such time as a public building shall be erected there. The western district shall

PRrooovimssoa. tJackson.. Western district.

include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Oldham, Jefferson, Spencer, Bullitt, Nelson, Washington, Marion, Larue, Taylor, Casey, Green, Adair, Russell, Clinton, Cumberland, Monroe, Metcalfe, Allen, Barren, Simp-

son, Logan, Warren, Butler, Hart, Edmonson, Grayson, Hardin, Meade, Breckinridge, Hancock, Daviess, Ohio, McLean, Muhlenberg, Todd, Christian, Trigg, Lyon, Caldwell, Livingston, Crittenden, Hopkins, Webster, Henderson, Union, Marshall, Calloway, McCracken, Graves, Ballard, Carlisle, Hickman, and Fulton, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for the western district shall be

Terms.

held at Louisville on the second Mondays in March and October ; at

Owensboro on the first Monday in May and the fourth Monday in

November; at Paducah on the third Mondays in April and November; and at Bowling Green on the third Monday in May and the second Monday in December. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Frankfort,

offices.

at Covington, at Richmond, at London, at Catlettsburg, and at Jackson; and the clerk for the western district shall maintain an office in
charge of himself or a deputy at Louisville, at Owensboro, at Paducah,
and at Bowling Green, each of which offices shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of said court. The clerks civRieltaucrtnioonfsp. rocessin of the courts for the eastern and western districts, upon issuing origi- R.S.,sec. 745, p. 141.

nal process in a civil action, shall make it returnable to the court nearest to the county of the residence of the defendant, or of that defendant whose county is nearest to a court, and shall, immediately

uponpayment by the plaintiff of his fees accrued, send the papers filed to the clerk of the court to which the process is made returnable ; and

whenever the process is not thus made returnable, any defendant may, upon motion, on or before the calling of the cause, have it transferred to the court to which it should have been sent had the clerk known the residence of the defendant when the action was brought.

SEO. 84. The State of Louisiana is divided into two judicial districts, to be known as the eastern and western districts of Louisiana. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the parishes of Assumption, Iberia, Jefferson, Lafourche, Orleans, Plaquemines, Saint Bernard, Saint Charles, Saint James, Saint John the Baptist, Saint Mary, Saint

LVoouli. s2i1a, npa..507. EDiavsitseironndsi. strict.

Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, and Washington, which shall constitute the New Orleans division; also the territory embraced on

the date last mentioned in the parishes of Ascension, East Baton

Rouge, East Feliciana, Livingston, Pointe Coupee, Saint Helena, West
Baton Rouge, Iberville, and West Feliciana, which shall constitute the Baton Rouge division of said district. Terms of the district court Terms.

for the New Orleans division shall be held at New Orleans on the third

Mondays in February, May, and November; and for the Baton Rouge division, at Baton Rouge on the second Mondays in April and Novem- offices. ber. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall maintain an

office in charge of himself or a deputy at New Orleans and at Baton Rouge which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the

business of the court. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the parishes of Saint Landry, Evangeline, Saint Martin, Lafayette, and Vermilion, which shall constitute the Opelousas division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the parishes of Rapides, Avoyelles, Catahoula, La Salle, Grant, and Winn,

DWievsitseironnsd. istrict.

1114

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

which shall constitute the Alexandria division of said district; also

the territory embraced on the said date last mentioned in the parishes of Caddo, De Soto, Bossier, Webster, Claiborne, Bienville, Natchi-

toches, Sabine, and Red River, which shall constitute the Shreveport division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last

mentioned in the parishes of Ouachita, Franklin, Richland, Morehouse, East Carroll, West Carroll, Madison, Tensas, Concordia, Union, Caldwell, Jackson, and Lincoln, which shall constitute the Monroe division

Terms.

of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the parishes of Acadia, Calcasieu , Cameron, and Vernon, which shall constitute the Lake Charles division of said district.

Terms of the district court for the Opelousas division shall be held at Opelousas on the first Mondays in January and June ; for the Alexandria division, at Alexandria on the fourth Mondays in January and

June; for the Shreveport division, at Shreveport on the third Mondays in February and October; for the Monroe division, at Monroe on the

Offices.

first Mondays in April and October ; and for the Lake Charles division, at Lake Charles on the third Mondays in May and December. The clerk of the court for the western district shall maintain an office in

charge of himself or a deputy at Opelousas, at Alexandria, at Shreve-

port, at Monroe, and at Lake Charles, which shall be kept open at all

times for the transaction of the business of the court.

Maine.

SEO. 85. The State of Maine shall constitute one judicial district,

TR.erS.m,ss.ec. 531, p. 89. to be known as the district of Maine. Terms of the district court

shall be held at Portland on the first Tuesdays in February and

December; at Bangor on the first Tuesday in June; and at Bath on

the first Tuesday in September.

Maryland.

R. S., sec. 531, p. 89, SEC. 86. The State of Maryland shall constitute one judicial dis-

Terms.

trict, to be known as the district of Maryland. Terms of the district

court shall be held at Baltimore on the first Tuesdays in March, June,

Offices.

September, and December; and at Cumberland on the second Monday

in May and the last Monday in September. The clerk of the court

shall appoint a deputy who shall reside and maintain an office at

Cumberland, unless the clerk shall himself reside there; and the

marshal shall also appoint a deputy, who shall reside and maintain

an office at Cumberland, unless he shall himself reside there.

Massachusetts. R. 8., sec. 531, p. 89.

SEC. 87. The State of Massachusetts shall constitute one judicial

Terms.

district, to be known as the district of Massachusetts. Terms of the

district court shall be held at Boston on the third Tuesday in March,

the fourth Tuesday in June, the second Tuesday in September, and

Proviso.

the first Tuesday in December; and at Springfield, on the second

Roma, etc., at Tuesdays in May and December: Provided, That suitable rooms and

Springfield.

accommodations for holding court at Springfield shall be furnished

free of expense to the Government until such time as a Federal build-

ing shall be erected there for that purpose. The marshal and the clerk

for said district shall each appoint at least one deputy, to reside in

Michigan.

Springfield and to maintain an office at that place.

R. S., sec. 538, p. 90. SEC. 88. The State of Michigan is divided into two judicial districts,

Eastern district. Divisions.

to be known as the eastern and western districts of Michigan. The

eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day

of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alcona, Alpena, Arenac, Bay, Cheboygan, Clare, Crawford, Genesee, Gladwin, Gratiot, Huron, Iosco, Isabella, Midland , Montmorency, Ogemaw, Oscoda, Otsego, Presque Isle, Roscommon, Saginaw, Shiawassee, and Tuscola,

which shall constitute the northern division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Branch,

Calhoun, Clinton, Hillsdale, Ingham, Jackson, Lapeer, Lenawee,

Terms.

Livingston, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, St. Clair, Sanilac, Washte naw, and Wayne, which shall constitute the southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the southern division shall

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1115

be held at Detroit on the first Tuesdays in March, June, and November; for the northern division, at Bay City on the first Tuesdays in

May and October, and at Port Huron in the discretion of the judge of said court and at such times as he shall appoint therefor. There shall also be held a special or adjourned term of the district court at

Bay City for the hearing of admiralty causes, beginning in the month of February in each year. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alger, Baraga, Chippewa, Delta, Dickinson,

Western district. Divisions.

Gogebic, Houghton, Iron, Keweenaw, Luce, Mackinac, Marquette, Menominee, Ontonagon, and Schoolcraft, which shall constitute the

northern division ; also the territory embraced on the said date last

mentioned in the counties of Allegan, Antrim, Barry, Benzie, Berrien, Cass, Charlevoix, Eaton, Emmet, Grand Traverse, Ionia, Kalamazoo , Kalkaska, Kent, Lake, Leelanau, Manistee, Mason, Mecosta, Mis-

saukee, Montcalm, Muskegon, Newaygo,, Oceana, Osceola, Ottawa,
St. Joseph, Van Buren, and Wexford, which shall constitute the Terms. southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the

southern division shall be held at Grand Rapids on the first Tuesdays in March and October; and for the northern division, at Marquette

on the first Tuesdays in May and September. All issues of fact shall be tried at the terms held in the division where such suit shall be

commenced. Actions in rem and admiralty may be brought in whichever division of the eastern district service can be had upon

the res. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the district court of the western division from regulating, by general rule, the venue of

transitory actions either at law or in equity, or from changing the Offices. same for cause. The clerk of the court for the western district shall

reside and keep his office at Grand Rapids, and shall also appoint a deputy clerk for said court held at Marquette, who shall residè and

keep his office at that place. The marshal for said western district shall keep an office and a deputy marshal at Marquette. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall keep his office at the city of

Detroit, and shall appoint a deputy for the court held at Bay City, who shall reside and keep his office at that place. The marshal for

said district shall keep an office and a deputy marshal at Bay City, and mileage on service of process in said northern division shall be

computed from Bay City. SEO. 89. The State of Minnesota shall constitute one judicial dis-
trict, to be known as the district of Minnesota. It is divided into six divisions, to be known as the first, second, third, fourth, fifth,

MR.in8n.,esseoct.a5.31, p. 89. Divisions.

and sixth divisions. The first division shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Winona, Wabasha, Olmsted, Dodge, Steele, Mower, Fill-

more, and Houston. The second division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Freeborn,

Faribault, Martin, Jackson, Nobles, Rock, Pipestone, Murray, Cottonwood, Watonwan, Blue Earth, Waseca, Lesueur, Nicollet, Brown,

Redwood, Lyon, Lincoln, Yellow Medicine, Sibley, and Lac qui Parle. The third division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Chisago, Washington, Ramsey,

Dakota, Goodhue, Rice, and Scott. The fourth division shall include

the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of

Hennepin, Wright, Meeker, Kandiyohi, Swift, Chippewa, Renville, McLeod, Carver, Anoka, Sherburne, and Isanti. The fifth division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Cook, Lake, Saint Louis, Itasca, Koochiching, Cass,

Crow Wing, Aitkin, Carlton, Pine, Kanabec, Mille Lacs, Morrison, and Benton. The sixth division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Stearns, Pope, Stevens,..

Bigstone, Traverse, Grant, Douglas, Todd, Ottertail, Roseau; Wilkin,

1116

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Terms.

Clay, Becker, Wadena, Norman, Polk, Red Lake, Marshall, Kittson, Beltrami, Clearwater, Mahnomen, and Hubbard. Terms of the district court for the first, division shall be held at Winona on the third

Tuesdays in May and November; for the second division, at Mankato on the fourth Tuesdays in April and October; for the third division, at Saint Paul on the first Tuesdays in June and December; for the

fourth division, at Minneapolis on the first Tuesdays in April and October; for the fifth division, at Duluth on the second Tuesdays in

Offices.

January and July; and for the sixth division, at Fergus Falls on the first Tuesday in May and second Tuesday in November. The clerk

of the court shall appoint a deputy clerk at each place where the

court is now required to be held at which the clerk shall not himself

reside, who shall keep his office and reside at the place appointed for

the holding of said court.

Mississippi. R. S., sec. 539, p. 91.

SEO. 90. The State of Mississippi is divided into two judicial dis-

Northern district. tricts, to be known as the northern and southern districts of Mis-

Divisions.

sissippi. The northern district shall include the territory embraced

on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alcorn, Attala, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Clay, Itawamba; Lee, Lowndes, Monroe, Oktibbeha, Pontotoc, Prentiss, Tishomingo, and Winston, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the coun-

ties of Benton, Coahoma, Calhoun, Carroll, De Soto, Grenada, Lafayette, Marshall, Montgomery, Panola, Quitman, Tallahatchie, Tate,

Terms.

Tippah, Tunica, Union, Webster, and Yalobusha, which shall constitute the western division of said district. Terms of the district court for the eastern division shall be held at Aberdeen on the first

Mondays in April and October; and for the western division, at

Oxford on the first Mondays in June and December, and at Clarks-

Proviso. Rooms at

Clarks- dale on the

third

Mondays in June

and

December :

Provided,

That

dale.

suitable rooms and accommodations for holding court at Clarksdale

Southern district. Divisions.

are furnished free of expense to the United States.

The southern

district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July,

nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Adams, Amite, Copiah,

Covington, Franklin, Hinds, Holmes, Jefferson, Jefferson Davis, Lawrence, Lincoln, Leflore, Madison, Pike, Rankin, Simpson, Smith, Scott, Wilkinson, and Yazoo, which shall constitute the Jackson division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in

Terms

the counties of Bolivar, Claiborne, Issaquena, Sharkey, Sunflower, Warren, and Washington, which shall constitute the western division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Clarke, Jones, Jasper, Kemper, Lauderdale, Leake, Neshoba, Newton, Noxubee, and Wayne, which shall constitute the eastern division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Forrest, Greene, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Lamar, Marion, Perry, and Pearl River, which constitutes the southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for

the Jackson division shall be held at Jackson on the first Mondays in May and November; for the western division, at Vicksburg on

the first Mondays in January and July; for the eastern division, at

Offices.

Meridian on the second Mondays in March and September; and for the southern division, at Biloxi on the third Mondays in February and August. The clerk of the court for each district shall maintain

an office in charge of himself or a deputy at each place in his district at which court is now required to be held, at which he shall not himself reside, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The marshal for each of said districts

shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy. at each place of holding court in his district.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1117

SEO. 91. The State of Missouri is divided into two judicial districts, to be known as the eastern and western districts of Missouri. The
eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the city of Saint Louis and the counties of Audrain, Crawford, Dent, Franklin, Gasconade, Iron, Jefferson, Lincoln, Maries, Montgomery, Phelps, Saint Charles, Saint

MRi.sSs.o,usreic.. 640, p. 91.
Eastern district Divisions.

Francois, Sainte Genevieve, Saint Louis, Warren, and Washington, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Adair, Chariton, Clark, Knox, Lewis, Linn, Macon, Marion, Monroe, Pike, Ralls, Randolph, Schuyler, Scotland, and Shelby, which shall

constitute the northern division of said district ; also the territory

embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bollinger, Butler, Cape Girardeau, Carter, Dunklin, Madison, Mississippi, New Madrid, Pemiscot, Perry, Reynolds, Ripley, Seott, Shannon, Stoddard, and Wayne, which shall constitute the southeastern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the eastern division shall

Terms.

be held at Saint Louis on the first Mondays in May and November, Proviso.

and at Rolla on the second Mondays in January and June: Provided,

at Rolla.

That suitable rooms and accommodations for holding court at Rolla are furnished free of expense to the United States ; for the northern division, at Hannibal on the fourth Monday in May and the first Monday in December; and for the southeastern division, at Cape Girardeau on the second Mondays in April and October. The western dis-
trict shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bates, Caldwell, Carroll,

WDeisvitseironnsd.istrict.

Cass, Clay, Grundy, Henry, Jackson, Johnson, Lafayette, Livingston, Mercer, Putnam, Ray, Saint Clair, Saline, and Sullivan, which shall constitute the western division; also the territory embraced on the

date last mentioned in the counties of Barton, Barry, Jasper, Lawrence, McDonald, Newton, Stone, and Vernon, which shall constitute

the southwestern division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Andrew, Atchison, Buchanan, Clinton, Daviess, Dekalb, Gentry, Holt, Harrison, Nodaway, Platte, and Worth, which shall constitute the Saint Joseph division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Benton, Boone, Callaway, Cooper, Camden, Cole, Hickory, Howard, Miller, Moniteau, Morgan, Osage, and Pettis, which shall constitute the

central division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Christian, Cedar, Dade, Dallas, Douglas,

Greene, Howell, Laclede, Oregon, Ozark, Polk, Pulaski , Taney, Texas, Webster, and Wright, which constitutes the southern division. Terms Terms.
of the district court for the western division shall be held at Kansas

City on the fourth Monday in April and first Monday in November, and at Chillicothe on the fourth Monday in May and the first Monday in December: Provided, That suitable rooms and accommodations for PRrooovimsso.at Chilli-

holding court at Chillicothe are furnished free of expense to the United cothe. States; for the southwestern division, at Joplin on the second Mondays in June and January; for the Saint Joseph division, at Saint Joseph on the first Monday in March and third Monday in September; for the central division, at Jefferson City on the third Mondays in March and October ; and for the southern division, at Springfield on

the first Mondays in April and October. The clerk of the court for the western district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Kansas City, at Jefferson City, at Saint Joseph, at Chillicothe, at Joplin, and at Springfield, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The marshal´

offices.

for each district shall also maintain an office in charge of himself or a

deputy at each place at which court is now held in his district.

1118

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Montana.
Vol. 25, p. 692. Terms.

SEC. 92. The State of Montana shall constitute one judicial district, to be known as the district of Montana. Terms of the district court

shall be held at Helena on the first Mondays in April and November ; at Butte on the first Tuesdays in February and September ; at Great

Falls on the first Mondays in May and October ; at Missoula on the first

Mondays in January and June; and at Billings on the first Mondays in

Transfer ofcauses. March and August. Causes, civil and criminal, may be transferred by

the court or judge thereof from Helena to Butte or from Butte to Helena, or from Helena or Butte to Great Falls, or from Great Falls to

Helena or Butte, in said district, when the convenience of the parties

or the ends of justice would be promoted by the transfer; and any

interlocutory order may be made by the court or judge thereof in

either place.

Nebraska. R. 8., sec. 531, p. 89.

SEC. 93. The State of Nebraska shall constitute one judicial district

to be known as the district of Nebraska. Said district is divided into

Divisions.

eight divisions. The territory embraced on the first day of July, nine-

teen hundred and ten, in the counties of Douglas, Sarpy, Washington,

Dodge, Colfax, Platte, Nance, Boone, Wheeler, Burt, Thurston, Dakota, Cuming, Cedar, and Dixon, shall constitute the Omaha divi-

sion; the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the coun-

ties of Madison, Antelope, Knox, Pierce, Stanton, Wayne, Holt, Boyd, Rock, Brown, and Keya Paha, shall constitute the Norfolk division;

the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of

Cherry, Sheridan, Dawes, Box Butte, and Sioux, shall constitute the

Chadron division; the territory embraced on the date last mentioned

in the counties of Hall, Merrick, Howard, Greeley, Garfield, Valley, Sherman, Buffalo, Custer, Loup, Blaine, Thomas, Hooker, and Grant,

shall constitute the Grand Island division; the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Lincoln, Dawson, Logan,

McPherson, Keith, Deuel, Garden, Morrill, Cheyenne, Kimball, Banner, and Scott's Bluff, shall constitute the North Platte division ; the

territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Cass,

Otoe, Johnson, Nemaha, Pawnee, Richardson, Gage, Lancaster, Saun-

ders, Butler, Seward, Saline, Jefferson, Thayer, Fillmore, York, Polk,

and Hamilton, shall constitute the Lincoln division ; the territory

embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Clay, Nuckolls,

Webster, Adams, Kearney, Franklin, Harlan, and Phelps, shall constitute the Hastings division ; and the territory embraced on the date

last mentioned in the counties of Gosper, Furnas, Red Willow, Fron-

Terms.

tier,Hayes, Hitchcock, Dundy, Chase, and Perkins, shall constitute the McCook division. Terms of the district court for the Omaha division

shall be held at Omaha on the first Monday in April and the fourth

Monday in September; for the Norfolk division, at Norfolk on the third Monday in September; for the Chadron division, at Chadron on

the second Monday in September; for the Grand Island division, at

Grand Island on the second Monday in January; for the North Platte

division, at North Platte on the second Monday in June ; for the Lin-

coln division, at Lincoln on the second Monday in May and the first

Monday in October; for the Hastings division, at Hastings on the sec-

Proviso. Rooms.

ond Monday in March; and forthe McCook division, at McCook on the first Monday in March: Provided, That where provision is made herein for holding court at places where there are no Federal buildings, a suitable room in which to hold court, together with light and heat, shall be

Offices.

provided by the city or county where such court is held, without any expense to the United States. The clerk of the court shall appoint a

deputy for each division of the district in which he does not himself

reside, who shall keep his office and reside at the place of holding court

in the division for which he is appointed.

Nevcdat R. 8., sec. 531, p. 89.

SEO. 94. The State of Nevada shall constitute one judicial district,

Terms.

to be known as the district of Nevada. Terms of the district court

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1119

shall be held at Carson City on the first Mondays in February, May,
and 'October. · SEO. 95. The State of New Hampshire shall constitute one judicial

New Hampshire. R. B.,sec.531, p. 59.

district, to be known as the district of New Hampshire. Terms of Terms

the district court shall be held at Portsmouth on the third Tuesdays

in March and September ; at Concord on the third Tuesdays in June

and December; and at Littleton on the last Tuesday in August.

NewJersey.

SEO. 96. The State of New Jersey shall constitute one judicial dis- R. S., sec. 631, p. 89.

Terms.

trict, to be known as the district of NewJersey. Terms of the district

court shall be held at Trenton on the third Tuesdays in January, Civil causesat New-
April, June, and September. At each term of the district court it ark,
shall be lawful for the judge holding such term, on consent of both
parties, or on application therefor and good cause shown by either

party to any civil cause set for trial or hearing at said term, to order such cause to be held or tried at the city of Newark, in said district, Proviso.

upon the day set for that purpose by said judge : Provided, That Applications. such application shall be made to said judge, either in vacation or

term time, at least one week before the date set for trial of said cause,

and on at least five days' notice to the opposite party or his or her attorney ; and writs of subpoena to compel the attendance of

witnesses at said city of Newark may issue, and jurors summoned to

attend said term may be ordered by said judge to be in attendance upon said court in the city of Newark.

SEO. 97. The State of New York is divided into four judicial dis- VNoelw. 3Y1o, rpk. ,175. tricts, to be known as the northern, eastern, southern, and western districts of New York. The northern district shall include the ter- Northern district.

ritory embraced on the first day of July,' nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Albany, Broome, Cayuga, Chenango , Clinton, Cort-

land, Delaware, Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Hamilton, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Montgomery, Oneida, Onondaga, Oswego, Otsego, Rensselaer, Saint Lawrence, Saratoga, Schenectady, Scho-

harie, Tioga, Tompkins, Warren, and Washington, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for said district shall be held at Terms.

Albany on the second Tuesday in February ; at Utica on the first Tuesday in December; at Binghamton on the second Tuesday in June; at Auburn on the first Tuesday in October ; at Syracuse on the

first Tuesday in April ; and, in the discretion of the judge of the court,

one term annually at such time and place within the counties of Saratoga, Onondaga, Saint Lawrence, Clinton, Jefferson, Oswego, and Franklin, as he may from time to time appoint. Such appointment shall be made by notice of at least twenty, days published in a newspaper published at the place where said court is to be held . The

Eastern district.

eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day
of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Richmond, Kings, Queens, Nassau, and Suffolk, with the waters thereof. TTeerrmmss Terms.

of the district court for said district shall be held at Brooklyn on the first Wednesday in every month. The southern district shall include Southern district.

the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Columbia, Dutchess, Greene, New York, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Sullivan, Ulster, and Westchester, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for said district

Terms.

shall he held at New York City on the first Tuesday in each month .

The

district

courts

of

the

southern

and

eastern

districts

shall

have

Concurrent jurisdiction of castern and

concurrent jurisdiction over the waters within the counties of New soRu.thSe.rn districts.

York, Kings, Queens, Nassau, Richmond, and Suffolk, and over all

ec. 512, p. 91.

seizures made and all matters done in such waters ; all processes or

orders issued within either of said courts or by any judge thereof
Western district. shall run and be executed in any part of said waters. The western

district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July,

nineteen hundred and ten , in the counties of Allegany, Cattaraugus,

1120

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Terms.

Chautauqua, Chemung, Erie, Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Niagara, Ontario, Orleans, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Wayne, Wyoming, and Yates, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for said district shall be held at Elmira on the second Tuesday in January;

at Buffalo on the second Tuesdays in March and November; at

Rochester on the second Tuesday in May; at Jamestown on the

second Tuesday in July; at Lockport on the second Tuesday in

October; and at Canandaigua on the second Tuesday in September.

miBraanlktyrupptrcoyceaenddinadg-s The regular sessions of the district court for the western district for the

at Buffalo.

hearing of motions and for proceedings in bankruptcy and the trial of

causes in admiralty, shall he held at Buffalo at least two weeks in

each month of the year, except August, unless the business is sooner
disposed of. The times for holding the same and such other special
sessions as the court shall deem necessary shall be fixed by rules of
the court. All process in admiralty causes and proceedings shall Interchange of be made returnable at Buffalo . The judge of any district in the judges.
State of New York may perform the duties of the judge of any other
district in such State upon the request of any resident judge entered
in the minutes of his court; and in such cases such judge shall have
North Carolina. the same powers as are vested in the resident judge. R. 8., sec. 543, p. 91. SEC. 98. The State of North Carolina is divided into two districts,
to be known as the eastern and western districts of North Carolina. Eastern district. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first

day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Chatham, Cumberland, Curri-

tuck, Craven, Columbus, Chowan, Carteret, Dare, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Lee, Martin, Moore, Nash,

New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Robeson, Richmond, Sampson, Scotland,

Terms.

Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson. Terms of the district court for the eastern district shall be held at

Elizabeth City on the second Mondays in April and October; at

Washington on the third Mondays in April and October; at Newbern

on the fourth Mondays in April and October ; at Wilmington on the

second Monday after the fourth Mondays in April and October;

Proviso.

and at Raleigh on the fourth Monday after the fourth Mondays in

toRno. oms at Washing- April and October: Provided, That the city of Washington shall provide and furnish at its own expense a suitable and convenient

Offices.

place for holding the district court at Washington until a courthouse shall be constructed by the United States. The clerk of the court

Western district.

for the eastern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself. or a deputy at Raleigh, at Wilmington, at Newbern, at Elizabeth City, and at Washington, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The western district

shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alamance, Alexander, Ashe, Alleghany, Anson, Buncombe, Burke, Caswell, Cabarrus, Catawba, Cleveland, Caldwell, Clay, Cherokee, Davidson, Davie, Forsyth, Guilford, Gaston, Graham, Henderson, Haywood, Iredell, Jackson, Lincoln, Montgomery, Mecklenburg, Mitchell, McDowell, Madison, Macon, Orange, Polk, Randolph, Rockingham, Rowan, Rutherford,

Terms.

Stanly, Stokes, Surry, Swain, Transylvania, Union, Wilkes, Watauga, Yadkin, and Yancey. Terms of the district court for the western

district shall be held at Greensboro on the first Mondays in June and December ; at Statesville on the third Mondays in April and October ; at Salisbury on the fourth Mondays in April and October; at Ashe

ville on the first Mondays in May and November ; at Charlotte on the first Mondays in April and October; and at Wilkesboro on the fourth

Mondays in May and November. The clerk of the court for the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 2911.

1121

western district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Greensboro, at Asheville, at Statesville, and at Wilkesboro, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court."

Offices.

SEC. 99. The State of North Dakota shall constitute one judicial district, to be known as the district of North Dakota. The territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Burleigh, Stutsman, Logan, McIntosh, Emmons, Kidder, Foster, Wells, McLean, and Sheridan, and all the territory in said State lying west of the Missouri River and south of the twelfth standard parallel, shall constitute the southwestern division of said district; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Cass, Richland, Barnes, Dickey, Sargent, Lamoure, Ransom, Griggs, and Steele, shall constitute the southeastern division;

North Dakota Divisions.

and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Grand Forks, Traill, Walsh, Pembina, Cavalier, and Nelson, shall constitute the northeastern division; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Ramsey, Eddy, Benson, Towner, Rolette, Bottineau, Pierce, and McHenry, shall constitute the northwestern division; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in thecounties ofWard, Williams, and Montraille, and all the territory in said State lying west of the Missouri River and north of the twelfth standard parallel, shall constitute the western division. The several Indian reservations and parts thereof within said State shall constitute a part of the several divisions within which they are respectively situated. Terms of the district court for the southwestern division shall be held at Bismarck on the first Tuesday in March; for the southeastern division, at Fargo on the third Tuesday in May; for the northeastern division, at Grand Forks on the second Tuesday in November; for the northwestern division, at Devils Lake on the first Tuesday in July; and for the western division, at Minot on the second Tuesday in October. The clerk of the court shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at each place at which court is now held in his district.

Indianreservations. Terms.
Offices.

SEO. 100. The State of Ohio is divided into two judicial districts, to be known as the northern and southern districts of Ohio. The
northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Ashland,

ORh.iSo.,. sec. 544, p. 91. NDiovritshieornsn. district.

Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Carroll, Columbiana, Crawford, Geauga, Holmes, Lake, Lorain, Medina, Mahoning, Portage, Richland, Summit, Stark, Tuscarawas, Trumbull, and Wayne, which shall constitute the eastern division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Auglaize, Allen, Defiance, Erie, Fulton,

Henry, Hancock, Hardin, Huron, Lucas, Mercer, Marion, Ottawa,

Paulding, Putnam, Seneca, Sandusky, Van Wert, Williams, Wood, and Wyandotte, which shall constitute the western division of said district. Terms of the district court for the eastern division shall be Terms.

held at Cleveland on the first Tuesdays in February, April, and October, and at Youngstown on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in March; and for the western division, at Toledo on the last Tuesdays in April and October. Grand and petit jurors summoned for ClJeuvreileasn,detco.r,Yatoueintghse-r service at a term of court to be held at Cleveland may, if in the opin- town. ion of the court the public convenience so requires, be directed to serve also at the term then being held or authorized to be held at Youngstown. Crimes and offenses committed in the eastern division shall be cognizable at the terms held at Cleveland, or at Youngstown, as the court may direct. Any suit brought in the eastern division may, in the discretion of the court, be tried at the term held at Youngstown. The southern district shall include the territory SDiovuitshieornsn.district. embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the

1122

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH . 231. 1911 .

counties of Adams, Brown, Butler, Champaign, Clark, Clermont, Clinton, Darke, Greene, Hamilton, Highland, Lawrence, Miami,

Montgomery, Preble, Scioto, Shelby, and Warren, which shall con-

stitute the western division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Athens, Belmont, Coshocton, Dela-

ware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Gallia, Guernsey, Harrison, Hock-

ing, Jackson, Jefferson, Knox, Licking, Logan, Madison, Meigs,

Terms.

Monroe, Morgan, Morrow, Muskingum, Noble, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Ross, Union, Vinton, and Washington, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district. Terms of the district court for

the western division shall be held at Cincinnati on the first Tuesdays

Proviso.

in February, April, and October; and for the eastern division, at

toTne. rms,etc., at Day Columbus on the first Tuesdays in June and December: Provided, That terms of the district court for the southern district shall be

held at Dayton on the first Mondays in May and November. Prosecutions for crimes and offenses committed in any part of said district shall also be cognizable at the terms held at Dayton. All suits which may be brought within the southern district, or either division thereof, may be instituted, tried, and determined at the terms held

Oklahoma.
Vol. 34, p. 275. Eastern district.

at Dayton. SEC. 101. The State of Oklahoma is divided into two judicial
districts, to be known as the eastern and the western districts of Oklahoma. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced

on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Adair, Atoka, Bryan, Craig, Cherokee, Creek, Choctaw, Coal, Carter,

Delaware, Garvin, Grady, Haskell, Hughes, Johnston, Jefferson,

Latimer, Le Flore, Love, McClain, Mayes, Muskogee, McIntosh,

Terms.

McCurtain, Murray, Marshall, Nowata, Ottawa, Okmulgee, Ofuskee, Pittsburg, Pushmataha, Pontotoc, Rogers, Stephens, Sequoyah, Seminole, Tulsa, Washington, and Wagoner. Terms of the district

court for the eastern district shall be held at Muskogee on the first Monday in January; at Vinita on the first Monday in March ; at

Western district.

Tulsa on the first Monday in April; at South McAlester on the first Monday in June ; at Ardmore on the first Monday in October; and at Chickasha on the first Monday in November in each year. The
western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day

of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alfalfa, Beaver,

R Terms.

Beckham, Blaine, Caddo, Canadian, Cimarron, Cleveland, Comanche, Custer, Dewey, Ellis, Garfield, Grant, Greer, Harmon, Harper, Jackson, Kay, Kingfisher, Kiowa, Lincoln, Logan, Majors, Noble, Okla-
homa, Osage, Pawnee, Payne, Pottawatomie, Roger Mills, Texas, Tillman, Washita, Woods, and Woodward. Terms of the district court for the western district shall be held at Guthrie on the first

Monday in January ; at Oklahoma City on the first Monday in March ;

Proviso.
Rooms at ward.
Offices.

at Enid on the first Monday in June; at Lawton on the first Monday in September; and at Woodward on the first Monday in November:
Wood- Provided, That suitable rooms and accommodations for holding court at Woodward are furnished free of expense to the United States. The clerk of the district court for the eastern district shall keep his

office at Muskogee, and the clerk for the western district at Guthrie,

and shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at

Oklahoma City.

Oregon . R. S., sec. 531, p. 89.

SEO. 102. The State of Oregon shall constitute one judicial district,

Terms.

to be known as the district of Oregon. Terms of the district court

shall be held at Portland on the first Mondays in March, July, and

Offices. .

November; at Pendleton on the first Tuesday in April ; and at Medford on the first Tuesday in October. The marshal and the clerk for

said district shall each appoint, in the manner provided by law, at least one deputy at Pendleton and one at Medford, who shall reside

and maintain an office at each of said places.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1123

SEO. 103. The State of Pennsylvania is divided into three judicial RP.enBn.s, yBlevc.an54i6a:, p. 91.

districts, to be known as the eastern, middle, and western districts of Eastern district. Pennsylvania. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in. the counties of Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lancaster, Lehigh, Terms. Montgomery, Northampton, Philadelphia, and Schuylkill. Terms of
the district court shall be held at Philadelphia on the second Mondays in March and June, the third Monday in September, and the second Monday in December, each term to continue until the succeeding term begins. The middle district shall include the territory MViodld. 8l1e,dpi.st8r8i0c.t. embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Adams, Bradford, Cameron, Carbon, Center, Clinton, Columbia, Cumberland, Dauphin, Franklin, Fulton, Huntingdon,
Juniata, Lackawanna, Lebanon, Luzerne, Lycoming, Mifflin, Monroe, Montour, Northumberland, Perry, Pike, Potter, Snyder, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Tioga, Union, Wayne, Wyoming, and York. Terms Terms. of the district court shall be held at Scranton on the fourth Monday
in February and the third Monday in October; at Harrisburg on the first Mondays in May and December; and at Williamsport on the second Mondays in January and June. The clerk of the court for riosfbfuircge,. etc., at Harthe middle district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a
deputy at Harrisburg; and civil suits instituted at that place shall be tried there, if either party resides nearest that place of holding court, unless by consent of parties they are removed to another place

for trial. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Bedford, Blair, Butler, Cambria, Clarion, Clearfield, Crawford, Elk, Erie, Fayette, Forest, Greene, Indiana, Jefferson, Lawrence, McKean, Mercer, Somerset, Venango, Warren, Washington, and Westmoreland. Terms of the district

Western district. Terms.

court shall be held at Pittsburg on the first Monday in May and the third Monday in October; and at Erie on the third Monday in July and the second Monday in January. · SEC. 104. The State of Rhode Island shall constitute one judicial
district, to be known as the district of Rhode Island. Terms of the district court shall be held at Providence on the fourth Tuesday in May and the third Tuesday in November; and at Newport on the second Tuesday in May, and the third Tuesday in October.
SEO. 105. The State of South Carolina is divided into two districts, to be known as the eastern and western districts of South Carolina. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Abbeville, Anderson, Cherokee, Chester, Edgefield, Fairfield, Greenville, Greenwood, Lancaster, Laurens, Newberry,Oconee, Pickens, Saluda, Spartanburg, Union, and York. Terms of the district court for the western district shall be held at Greenville on the third Tuesdays in April and October. The eastern district shall include the territory em-

RR.ho8.d,eseIcs.l5a3n1d,.p. 89. Terms.
South Carolina. B.,Sec. 646, p. 92. Western district.
Terms. Eastern district.

braced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Aiken, Bamberg, Barnwell, Beaufort, Berkeley, Calhoun,

Charleston, Chesterfield, Clarendon, Colleton, Darlington, Dorchester,
Florence, Georgetown, Hampton, Horry, Kershaw, Lee, Lexington, Marion, Marlboro, Orangeburg, Richland, Sumter, and Williamsburg. Terms of the district court for the eastern district shall be held at

Terms.

Charleston on the first Tuesdays in June and December; at Columbia on the third Tuesday in January and the first Tuesday in November, the latter term to be solely for the trial of civil cases; and at Florence on the first Tuesday in March. The offices of the clerk of the district court shall be at Greenville, and at Charleston; and the clerk shall reside in one of said cities and have a deputy in the other.
SEO. 106. The State of South Dakota shall constitute one judicial

Offices. SouthDakota

district, to be known as the district of South Dakota. The territory Divisions.

1124

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Aurora, Beadle, Bon Homme, Brookings, Brule, Charles

Mix, Clay, Davison, Douglas, Gregory, Hanson, Hutchinson, Kingsbury, Lake, Lincoln, McCook, Miner, Minnehaha, Moody, Sanborn, Turner, Union, and Yankton, and in the Yankton Indian reservation, shall constitute the southern division of said district ; the terri-

tory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Brown, Campbell, Clark, Codington, Corson, Day, Deuel, Edmunds, Grant, Hamlin, McPherson, Marshall, Roberts, Schnasse, Spink, and Walworth, and in the Sisseton and Wahpeton Indian reservation, and in

that portion of the Standing Rock Indian reservation lying in South Dakota, shall constitute the northern division; the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Armstrong, Buffalo,

Dewey, Faulk, Hand, Hughes, Hyde, Jerauld, Lyman, Potter, Stanley, and Sully, and in the Cheyenne River, Lower Brule, and Crow Creek Indian reservations, shall constitute the central division; and the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bennett, Butte, Custer, Fall River, Harding, Lawrence, Meade,

Terms.

Mellette, Pennington, Perkins, Shannon, Todd, Tripp, Washabaugh, and Washington, and in the Rosebud and Pine Ridge Indian reservations, shall constitute the western division. Terms of the district court for the southern division shall be held at Sioux Falls on the

first Tuesday in April and the third Tuesday in October; for the

northern division, at Aberdeen on the first Tuesday in May and the

second Tuesday in November; for the central division, at Pierre on

the second Tuesday in June and the first Tuesday in October; and

for the western division, at Deadwood on the third Tuesday in May

Offices.

and the first Tuesday in September. The clerk of the district court

shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Sioux

Falls, at Pierre, at Aberdeen, and at Deadwood, which shall be kept

Tennessee.

open for the transaction of the business of the court.

R. S., sec. 547, p. 92. SEC. 107. The State of Tennessee is divided into three districts,

Eastern district. to be known as the eastern, middle, and western districts of Tennes-

Divisions.

see. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the

first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bledsoe, Bradley, Hamilton, James, McMinn, Marion, Meigs, Polk, Rhea, and Sequatchie, which shall constitute the southern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Anderson, Blount, Campbell , Claiborne, Grainger, Jefferson, Knox, Loudon, Monroe, Morgan, Roane, Sevier, Scott, and Union, which shall constitute the northern division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in

Terms.

the counties of Carter, Cocke, Greene, Hamblen, Hancock, Hawkins, Johnson, Sullivan, Unicoi, and Washington, which shall constitute the northeastern division of said district. Terms of the district court for the southern division of said district shall be held at Chatta-

Middle district.

nooga on the fourth Mondays in May and November ; for the northern division, at Knoxville on the first Mondays in January and July; and for the northeastern division, at Greeneville on the last Mondays in March and September. The middle district shall include the terri-

tory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bedford , Cannon , Cheatham, Coffee, Davidson,

Dickson, Franklin, Giles, Grundy, Hickman, Humphreys, Houston, Lawrence, Lewis, Lincoln, Marshall, Maury, Montgomery, Moore, Robertson, Rutherford , Stewart, Sumner, Trousdale, Warren,

Wayne, Williamson, and Wilson, which shall constitute the Nashville division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last

mentioned in the counties of Clay, Cumberland, DeKalb, Fentress, Jackson, Macon, Overton, Pickett, Putnam, Smith, Van Buren, and White, which shall constitute the northeastern division of said dis-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1125

trict. Terms of the district court for the Nashville division of said Terms.

district shall be held at Nashville on the second Mondays in April

and October; and for the northeastern division, at Cookeville on the Proviso. second Mondays in May and November: Provided, That suitable Rooms at Cookeaccommodations for holding court at Cookeville shall be provided by ville.
the county or municipal authorities without expense to the United Western district. States. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties
of Dyer, Fayette, Haywood, Lauderdale, Shelby, and Tipton, which shall constitute the western division of said district ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Benton,

Carroll, Chester, Crockett, Decatur, Gibson, Hardeman, Hardin, Henderson, Henry, Lake, McNairy, Madison, Obion, Perry, and Weakley, including the waters of the Tennessee River to low water mark on the eastern shore thereof wherever such river forms the

boundary line between the western and middle districts of Tennessee, from the north line of the State of Alabama north to the point in Henry County, Tennessee, where the south boundary line of the State of Kentucky strikes the west bank of the river, which shall constitute the eastern division of said district. Terms of the district

Terms.

court for the western division of said district shall be held at Memphis on the fourth Mondays in May and November ; and for the eastern

division, at Jackson on the fourth Mondays in April and October. The clerk of the court for the western district shall appoint a deputy who shall reside at Jackson. The marshal for the western district shall appoint a deputy who shall reside at Jackson. The marshal

Offices.

for the eastern district shall appoint a deputy who shall reside at Chattanooga. The clerk of the court for,the eastern district shall
maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Knoxville, at
Chattanooga, and at Greeneville, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court.

SEC. 108. The State of Texas is divided into four districts, to be known as the northern, eastern, western, and southern districts of Texas. The northern district shall include the territory embraced
on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Dallas, Ellis, Hunt, Johnson, Kaufman, Navarro, and Rockwall,

TVeoxla. 3s2, p. 64. NDiovritshieornns.district.

which shall constitute the Dallas division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in, the counties of Archer, Baylor, Clay, Comanche, Erath, Foard, Hardeman, Hood, Jack, Palo Pinto, Parker, Tarrant, Wichita, Wilbarger, Wise, and Young, which shall constitute the Fort Worth division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Armstrong, Bailey, Briscoe,

Carson, Castro, Childress, Cochran, Collingsworth, Cottle, Crosby, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Dickens, Donley, Floyd, Gray, Hale, Hall,

Hansford, Hartley, Hemphill, Hockley, Hutchinson, King, Lamb, Lipscomb, Lubbock, Moore, Motley, Ochiltree, Oldham, Parmer,

Potter, Randall, Roberts, Sherman, Swisher, and Wheeler, which shall constitute the Amarillo division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Andrews, Borden, Callahan,

Dawson, Eastland, Fisher, Gaines, Garza, Haskell, Howard, Jones, Kent, Knox, Lynn, Martin, Midland, Mitchell, Nolan, Scurry,

Shackelford, Stephens, Stonewall, Taylor, Terry, Throckmorton, and Yoakum, which shall constitute the Abilene division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Brown, Coke, Coleman, Concho, Crockett, Glasscock, Irion, Menard, Mills, Runnels, Schleicher, Sterling, Sutton, Tom Green, and Upton, which shall constitute the San Angelo division of the said district. Terms of the district court for the Dallas division shall be held at Dallas on

Terms.

the second Monday in January and the first Monday in May; for the Fort Worth division, at Fort Worth on the first Monday in November

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-73

1126

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Offices. Eastern district. Divisions.
Terms.
Offices. Western district. Divisions.
Terms.

and the second Monday in March; for the Amarillo division, at Amarillo on the third Monday in April and the fourth Monday in September ; for the Abilene division, at Abilene on the first Monday in October and the second Monday in April ; and for the San Angelo division, at San Angelo on the third Monday in October and the fourth Monday in April. The clerk of the court for the northern district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Dallas, at Fort Worth, at Amarillo, at Abilene, and at San Angelo, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Anderson, Angelina, Cherokee, Gregg, Henderson, Houston, Nacogdoches, Panola, Rains, Rusk, Smith, Van Zandt, and Wood, which shall constitute the Tyler division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Hardin, Jasper, Jefferson,
Liberty, Newton, Orange, Sabine, San Augustine, Shelby, and Tyler, which shall constitute the Beaumont division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Collin, Cook, Denton, Grayson, and Montague, which shall constitute the Sherman division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Camp, Cass, Harrison, Hopkins, Marion, Morris, and Upshur, which shall constitute the Jefferson division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Delta, Fannin, Red River, and Lamar, which shall constitute the Paris division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bowie, Franklin, and Titus, which shall constitute the . Texarkana division. Terms of the district court for the Tyler
division shall be held at Tyler on the fourth Mondays in January and April ; for the Jefferson division, at Jefferson on the first Monday in October and the third Monday in February; for the Beaumont division, at Beaumont on the third Monday in November and the first Monday in April ; for the Sherman division, at Sherman on the first Monday in January and the third Monday in May; for the Paris division, at Paris on the third Monday in October and the first Monday in March; and for the Texarkana division at Texarkana on the third Monday in March and the first Monday in November. The clerk of the court for the eastern district shall maintain an office
in charge of himself or a deputy at Sherman, at Beaumont, and at Texarkana, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of said court. The western district shall include the
territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Bastrop, Blanco, Burleson, Burnet, Caldwell, Gillespie,Hays, Kimble,Lampasas,Lee, Llano, Mason, McCulloch, San Saba, Travis, Washington, and Williamson, which shall constitute the Austin division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Atascosa, Bandera, Bexar, Comal, Dimmit, Edwards, Frio, Gonzales, Guadalupe, Karnes, Kendall, Kerr, Medina, and Wilson, which shall constitute the San Antonio division; also the territory embraced on the date_last mentioned in the counties of Brewster, Crane, Ector, El Paso, Jeff Davis, Loving, Reeves, Presidio, Ward, and Winkler, which shall constitute the El Paso division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Bell, Bosque, Coryell, Falls, Hamilton, Freestone, Hill, Leon, Limestone, McLennan, Milam, Robertson, and Somervell, which shall constitute the Waco division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Kinney, Maverick, Pecos, Terrell, Uvalde, Valverde, and Zavalla, which shall constitute the Del Rio division. Terms of the district court for the Austin division shall be
held at Austin on the fourth Monday in January and the second Monday in June ; for the Waco division, at Waco on the fourth Mon-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. Sess. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1127

day in February and the second Monday in November ; for the San

Antonio division, at San Antonio on the first Monday in May and the third Monday in December; for the El Paso division, at El Paso on

the first Monday in April and the first Monday in October; and for the Del Rio division, at Del Rio on the third Monday in March and the fourth Monday in October. The clerk of the court for the western Offices.

district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at
Austin, at El Paso, and at Del Rio, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of business. The southern district shall . SDoivuitshieornns.district.
include the territory embraced on the first of July, nineteen hundred
and ten, in the counties of Duval, La Salle, McMullen, Nueces, Webb,

and Zapata, which shall constitute the Laredo division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Cameron, Hidalgo, and Starr, which shall constitute the Brownsville division; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties

of Austin, Brazoria, Chambers, Galveston, Fort Bend; Matagorda, and Wharton, which shall constitute the Galveston division; also the

territory embraced on the date last mentioned, in the counties of

Brazos, Colorado, Fayette, Grimes, Harris, Lavaca, Madison, Montgomery, Polk, San Jacinto, Trinity, Walker, and Waller, which shall

constitute the Houston division; also the territory.embraced on the date last mentioned , in the counties of Bee, Calhoun, Dewitt, Goliad,

Jackson, Live Oak, Refugio, Aransas, San Patricio, and Victoria, which shall constitute the Victoria division. Terms of the district Terms. court for the Galveston division shall be held at Galveston on the

second Monday in January and the first Monday in June; for the

Houston division, at Houston on the fourth Mondays in February and September; for the Laredo division, at Laredo on the third Mon-

day in April and the second Monday in November; for the Brownsville division, at Brownsville on the second Monday in May and the

first Monday in December; and for the Victoria division, at Victoria on the first Monday in May and the fourth Monday in November. Offices. The clerk of the court for the southern district shall maintain an

office in charge of himself or a deputy at each of the places now designated for holding court in said district.
SEC. 109. The State of Utah shall constitute one judicial district,
to be known as the district of Utah. It is divided into two divisions, to be known as the northern and central divisions. The northern

Utah. Vol. 28, p. 110. Divisions.

division shall include the territory, embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Boxelder, Cache, Davis, Morgan, Rich, and Weber. The central division shall include the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of

Beaver, Carbon, Emery, Garfield, Grand, Iron, Juab, Kane, Millard, Piute, Salt Lake, San Juan, San Pete, Sevier, Summit, Tooele, Uinta, Utah, Wasatch, Washington, and Wayne. Terms of the district court for the northern division shall be held at Ogden on the second Mondays in March and September; and for the central division,. at

Terms.

Salt Lake City on the second Mondays in April and November. The offices. clerk of the court for said district shall maintain an office in charge

of himself or a deputy at each of the places where the court is now required to be held in the district.

SEC. 110. The State of Vermont shall constitute one judicial dis- VR.er8.m,osenct. 531, p. 89. trict, to be known as the district of Vermont. Terms of the district Terms. court shall be held at Burlington.on the fourth Tuesday in February;

at Windsor on the third Tuesday in May; and at Rutland on the

first Tuesday in October. In each year one of the stated terms of the district court may, when adjourned, be adjourned to meet at Mont-

pelier, and one at Newport. SEC. 111. The State of Virginia is divided into two districts, to be VRi.rSg.i,nseica..549, p. 92.
known as the eastern and western districts of Virginia. The eastern Eastern district.

1128

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Terms. Western district.
Terms.
Offices. Washington. VEaoslt. e3r3n, pd.i8s2t4r.ict. Divisions.
Terms. Western district. Divisions.

district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Accomac, Alexandria, Amelia, Brunswick, Caroline, Charles City, Chesterfield, Culpeper, Dinwiddie, Elizabeth City, Essex, Fairfax, Fauquier, Gloucester, Goochland, Greensville, Hanover, Henrico, Isle of Wight, James City, King and Q· ueen, King George, King William, Lancaster, Loudoun, Louisa, Lunenburg, Mathews, Mecklenburg, Middlesex, Nansemond, New Kent, Norfolk, Northampton, Northumberland, Nottoway, Orange, Powhatan, Prince Edward, Prince George, Prince William, Princess Anne, Richmond, Southampton, Spottsylvania, Stafford, Surry, Sussex, Warwick, Westmoreland, and York. Terms of the district court shall be held at Richmond on the first Mondays in April and October; at Norfolk on the first Mondays in May and November; and at Alexandria on the first Mondays in January and July. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Alleghany, Albemarle, Amherst, Appomattox, Augusta, Bath, Bedford, Bland, Botetourt, Buchanan, Buckingham, Campbell, Carroll, Charlotte, Clarke, Craig, Cumberland, Dickenson, Floyd, Fluvanna, Franklin, Frederick, Giles, Grayson, Greene, Halifax, Henry, Highland, Lee, Madison, Montgomery, Nelson, Page, Patrick, Pulaski, Pittsylvania, Rappahannock, Roanoke, Rockbridge, Rockingham,. Russell, Scott, Shenandoah, Smyth, Tazewell, Warren, Washington, Wise, and Wythe. Terms of the district court shall be held at Lynchburg on the Tuesdays after the second Mondays in March and September; at Danville on the Tuesdays after the second Mondays in April and November; at Abingdon on the Tuesdays after the first Mondays in May and October; at Harrisonburg on the Tuesdays after the first Mondays in June and December; at Charlottesville on the second Monday in January and the first Monday in July; at Roanoke on the third Monday in February and the third Monday in June; and at Big Stone Gap on the fourth Monday in January and the second Monday in August. The clerk of the court for the western district shall maintain an office in charge of himself or a deputy at Lynchburg, at Danville, at Charlottesville, at Roanoke , at Abingdon, and at Big Stone Gap, which shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of the court."
SEC. 112. The State of Washington is divided into two districts, to be known as the eastern and western districts of Washington. The eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Spokane, Stevens, Ferry, Okanogan, Chelan, Grant, Douglas, Lincoln, and Adams, with the waters thereof, including all Indian reservations within said counties, which shall constitute the northern division ;
also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Asotin, Garfield, Whitman, Columbia, Franklin, Walla Walla, Benton, Klickitat, Kittitas, and Yakima, with the waters thereof,
including all Indian reservations within said counties, which shall constitute the southern division of said district. Terms of the
district court for the northern division shall be held at Spokane on
the first Tuesdays in April and September; for the southern division, at Walla Walla on the first Tuesdays in June and December, and at
North Yakima on the first Tuesdays in May and October. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first day
of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, King, San Juan, Island, Kitsap, Clallam, and Jefferson, with the waters thereof, including all Indian reservations within said counties, which shall constitute the northern division ; also the territory embraced on the date last mentioned in the counties of Pierce, Mason, Thurston, Chehalis, Pacific, Lewis, Wahkiakum ,
Cowlitz, Clarke, and Skamania, with the waters thereof, including

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

.1129

all Indian reservations within said counties, which shall constitute the southern division of said district. Terms of the district court for

the northern division shall be held at Bellingham on the first Tuesdays Terms. in April and October; at Seattle on the first Tuesdays in May and

November; and for the southern division, at Tacoma on the first Tuesdays in February and July. The clerks of the courts for the Offices. eastern and western districts shall maintain an office in charge of

himself or a deputy at each place in their respective districts where terms of court are now required to be held.

SEO. 113. The State of West Virginia is divided into two districts, WVoels.t81V,ipr.g7i3n6i.a. to be known as the northern and southern districts of West Virginia. Northern district.
The northern district shall include the territory embraced on the first .

day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counti es of Hancock, Brooke, Ohio, Marshall, Tyler, Pleasants, Wood, Wirt, Ritchie,

Doddridge, Wetzel; Monongalia, Marion, Harrison, Lewis, Gilmer,

Calhoun, Upshur, Barbour, Taylor, Preston, Tucker, Randolph, Pen-
dleton, Hardy, Grant, Mineral, Hampshire, Morgan, Berkeley, and Terms. Jefferson, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for

the northern district shall be held at Martinsburg, the first Tuesday of April and the third Tuesday of September; at Clarksburg, the sec-

ond Tuesday of April and the first Tuesday of October; at Wheeling, the first Tuesday of May and the third Tuesday of October; at Philippi, the fourth Tuesday of May and first Tuesday of November;

at Parkersburg, the second Tuesday of January and second Tuesday

of June: Provided, That a place for holding court at Philippi shall be furnished the Government free of cost by Barbour County until other provision is made therefor by law. The southern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day of July, nineteen . hundred and ten, in the counties of Jackson, Roane, Clay, Braxton,

Booms at Philippi. Southern district.

Webster, Nicholas, Pocahontas, Greenbrier, Fayette, Boone, Ka-

nawha Putnam, Mason, Cabell, Wayne, Lincoln, Logan, Mingo, Raleigh, Wyoming, McDowell, Mercer, Summers, and Monroe, with the waters thereof. Terms of the district court for the southern dis-
trict shall be held at Charleston on the first Tuesday in June and the third Tuesday in November; at Huntington, on the first Tuesday in April and the first Tuesday after the third Monday in September; at

Terms.

Bluefield on the first Tuesday in May and the third Tuesday in October; at Addison on the first Monday in September; and at Lewis-
burg on the second Tuesday in February: Provided, That accommodations for holding court at Addison shall be furnished without cost to the United States.

Proviso. Roomsat Addison.

SEO. 114. The State of Wisconsin is divided into two districts, to WRi.sS.c,osnesci.n550, p.92. be known as the eastern and western districts of Wisconsin. The Eastern district.

eastern district shall include the territory embraced on the first day

ofJuly, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Brown, Calumet, Dodge, Door, Florence, Fond du Lac, Forest, Green Lake, Kenosha,

Kewaunee, Langlade, Manitowoc, Marinette, Marquette, Milwaukee, Oconto, Outagamie, Ozaukee, Racine, Shawano, Sheboygan, Walworth, Washington, Waukesha, Waupaca, Waushara, and Winnebago. Terms of the district court for said district shall be held at Milwaukee on the

Terms

first Mondays in January and October; at Oshkosh on the second

Tuesday in June; and at Green Bay on the first Tuesday in April. Western district. The western district shall include the territory embraced on the first

day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in the counties of Adams,

Ashland, Barron, Bayfield, Buffalo, Burnett, Chippewa, Clark, Columbia, Crawford, Dane, Dunn, Douglas, Eau Claire, Grant, Green,

Iowa, Iron, Jackson, Jefferson, Juneau,La Crosse, Lafayette, Lincoln, Marathon, Monroe, Oneida, Pepin, Pierce, Polk, Portage, Price, Rich-

land, Rock, Rusk, Saint Croix, Sauk, Sawyer, Taylor, Trempealeau,

1130

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Terms.

Vernon, Vilas, Washburn, and Wood . Terms of the district court

for said district shall be held at Madison on the first Tuesday in

December; at Eau Claire on the first Tuesday in June ; at La Crosse

on the third Tuesday in September; and at Superior on the fourth

Tuesday in January and the second Tuesday in July. The district court for each of said districts shall be open at all times for the pur-

pose of hearing and deciding causes of admiralty and maritime juris-

diction, so far as the same can be done without a jury. The clerk of

the court for the western district shall maintain an office in charge of

himself or a deputy at Madison, at La Crosse, and at Superior, which

shall be kept open at all times for the transaction of the business of

the court. The marshal for the western district shall appoint a
etcR.e,tautrSnupoefriporro. cess, deputy marshal who shall reside and keep his office at Superior. All Vol. 35, p. 648. writs and other process, except criminal warrants, issued at Superior,

may be made returnable at Superior ; and the clerk at that place shall

keep in his office the original records of all actions, prosecutions, and special proceedings so commenced and pending therein. Criminal

warrants may be returned at any place within the district where court is held. Whenever warrants issued at Superior shall be returned

at any other place, the clerk of the court wherein the warrant is returned, shall certify the same, under the seal of the court, together

with the plea and other proceedings, had thereon, and the determi-

nation of the court upon such plea or proceedings, with all papers

and orders filed in reference thereto, to the clerk of the court at

Superior; and the clerk at Superior shall enter upon his records a

minute of the proceedings had upon the return of said warrant, cer-

tified as aforesaid. All causes and proceedings instituted in the court at Superior, shall be tried therein, unless by consent of the parties,

or upon the order of the court, they are transferred to another place for trial.

Wyoming. Yellowstone Park

SEO. 115. The State of Wyoming and the Yellowstone National

included . Vol. 26, p. 225.

Park shall constitute one judicial district, to be known as the district

Terms.

of Wyoming. Terms of the district court for said district shall be

held at Cheyenne on the second Mondays in May and November ; at

Evanston on the second Tuesday in July; and at Lander on the first Monday in October ; and the said court shall hold one session annually

at Sheridan, and in said national park, on such dates as the court

Proviso. Rooms at Lander.

may order. The marshal and clerk of the said court shall each, respectively, appoint at least one deputy to reside at Evanston, and one to reside at Lander, unless he himself shall reside there, and shall also maintain an office at each of those places: Provided, That until a public building is provided at Lander, suitable accommodations for

holding court in said town shall be furnished the Government at an expense not to exceed three hundred dollars annually. The marshal of the United States for the said district may appoint one or more

deputy marshals for the Yellowstone National Park, who shall reside in said park.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1131

CHAPTER SIX.

Chapter 6.

CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS.

Circuit courts of appeals..

Bec.
116. Circuits. 117. Circuit courts of appeals. 118. Circuit judges. 119. Allotment of justices to the circuits. 120. Chief justice and associate justices
of Supreme Court, and district
judges, may sit in circuit court of appeals. 121. Justices allotted to circuits, how
designated.. 122. Seals, forms of process, and rules. 123. Marshals. 124. Clerks.
125. Deputy clerks, appointment and removal.
126. Terms.
127. Rooms for court, how provided. 128. Jurisdiction; when judgment final.

Sec.
129. Appeals in proceedings for injunctions and receivers.
130. Appellate and supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt act.
131. Appealsfrom the United States court for China.
132. Allowance of appeals, etc. 133. Writs of error and appeals from the .
supreme courts of Arizona and New Mexico.
134. Writs of error and appeals from district court for Alaska to circuit
court of appeals for ninth circuit; court may certify questions to the. Supreme Court.
135. Appeals and writs of error from Alaska; where heard.

SEC. 116. There shall be nine judicial circuits of the United States, Circuitsconstituted.
constituted as follows: First. The first circuit shall include the districts of Rhode Island, First.

Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine.

Second. The second circuit shall include the districts of Vermont, Second. Connecticut, and New York.

Third. The third circuit shall include the districts of Pennsylvania, Third.

New Jersey, and Delaware.

Fourth. The fourth circuit shall include the districts of Maryland, Fourth. Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina.

Fifth. The fifth circuit shall include the districts of Georgia, Florida, Fifth.

Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas. Sixth. The sixth circuit shall include the districts of Ohio, Michi-
gan, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Seventh. The seventh circuit shall include the districts of Indiana,

Sixth. Seventh.

Illinois, and Wisconsin.
Eighth. Eighth. The eighth circuit shall include the districts of Nebraska,

Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Colorado, Wyoming,

North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Oklahoma.

Ninth.

Ninth. The ninth circuit shall include the districts of Califórnia,

Oregon, Nevada, Washington, Idaho, Montana, and Hawaii.

SEC. 117. There shall be in each circuit a circuit court of appeals, peCailrsc. uitcourts of apwhich shall consist of three judges, of whom two shall constitute a Vol. 26, p. 826.

quorum , and which shall be a court of record, with appellate jurisdiction, as hereinafter limited and established.

SEC. 118. There shall be in the second, seventh, and eighth circuits, thoCirriczueidt. judges aurespectively, four circuit judges, in the fourth circuit, two circuit

judges, and in each of the other circuits, three circuit judges, to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of

the Senate. They shall be entitled to receive a salary at the rate of Salary; residence.

seven thousand dollars a year, each, payable monthly. Each circuit

judge shall reside within his circuit.

SEC.

119.

The Chief Justice and associate justices of the

Allotment of jusSupreme tices to circuits.

Court

shall

be

allotted

among

the

circuits

by

an

order

of

the

court,

R. S., secs. pp. 107, 108.

606,

618,

and a new allotment shall be made whenever it becomes necessary

or convenient by reason of the alteration of any circuit, or of the new

appointment of a Chief Justice or associate justice, or otherwise.

If a new allotment becomes necessary at any other time than during

1132

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

a term, it shall be made by the Chief Justice, and shall be binding until the next term and until a new allotment by the court. Whenever, by reason of death or resignation, no justice is allotted to a

circuit, the Chief Justice may, until a justice is regularly allotted

thereto, temporarily assign a justice of another circuit to such circuit.

Supreme tices and

Cdoiusrttrjiucst-

SEC. 120. The ChiefJustice and theassociate justices ofthe Supreme

jcuoudrgtessofmaappyeaslis.t in Court assigned to each circuit, and the several district judges within Vol. 26, p. 627. each circuit, shall be compétent to sit as judges of the circuit court Presiding judge. of appeals within their respective circuits. In case the Chief Justice

or an associate justice of the Supreme Court shall attend at any ses-

sion of the circuit court of appeals, he shall preside. In the absence

of such Chief Justice, or associate justice, the circuit judges in attendance upon the court shall preside in the order of the seniority of their

respective commissions. In case the full court at any time shall not be made up by the attendance of the Chief Justice or the associate

justice, and the circuit judges, one or more district judges within the

circuit shall sit in the court according to such order or provision

Proviso.

among the district judges as either by general or particular assign-

Disqualification of ment shall be designated by the court : Provided, That no judge

judge.

before whom a cause or question may have been tried or heard in a

district court, or existing circuit court, shall sit on the trial or hearing

of such cause or question in the circuit court of appeals.

Designation of terms.

SEO. 121. The words " circuit justice" and "justice of a circuit,"

R. S. , sec. 605, p. 107. when used in this title, shall be understood to designate the justice

of the Supreme Court who is allotted to any circuit ; but the word

"judge," when applied generally to any circuit, shall be understood

to include such justice.

Seals,forms ofprocesa, etc.

SEC. 122. Each of said circuit courts of appeals shall prescribe the

Vol. 26, p. 827. form and style of its seal, and the form of writs and other process and

procedure as may be conformable to the exercise of its jurisdiction; and shall have power to establish all rules and regulations for the conduct of the business of the court within its jurisdiction as con-

ferred by law.

Service by district marshals.

SEC. 123. The United States marshals in and for the several dis-

Vol. 27, p. 222.

tricts of said courts shall be the marshals of said circuit courts of

Clerks. Vol. 26, p. 826.

appeals, and shall exercise the same powers and perform the same duties, under the regulations of the court, as are exercised and performed by the marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States, so far as the same may be applicable.
SEO. 124. Each court shall appoint a clerk, who shall exercise the same powers and perform the same duties in regard to all matters

Deputy clerks. Ante, p. 895.

within its jursidiction, as are exercised and performed by the clerk of the Supreme Court, so far as the same may be applicable.
SEO. 125. The clerk of the circuit court of appeals for each circuit may, with the approval of the court, appoint, such number of deputy clerks as the court may deem necessary. Such deputies may be removed at the pleasure of the clerk appointing them, with the approval of the court. In case of the death of the clerk his deputy or deputies shall, unless removed by the court, continue in office and

perform the duties of the clerk in his name until a clerk is appointed and has qualified ; and for the defaults or misfeasances in office of any such deputy, whether in the lifetime of the clerk or after his death, the clerk and his estate and the sureties on his official bond shall be liable,

and his executor or administrator shall have such remedy for such defaults or misfeasances committed after his death as the clerk would

Terms. Vol. 26, p. 827.

be entitled to if the same had occurred in his lifetime. SEC. 126. A term shall be held annually by the circuit courts of
appeals in the several judicial circuits at the following places, and at such times as may be fixed by said courts, respectively: In the first circuit, in Boston; in the second circuit, in New York; in the third circuit, in Philadelphia ; in the fourth circuit, in Richmond; in the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1133

fifth circuit, in New Orleans, Atlanta, Fort Worth, and Montgomery;

in the sixth circuit, in Cincinnati ; in the seventh circuit, in Chicago;

in the eighth circuit, in Saint Louis, Denver or Cheyenne, and Saint

Paul; in the ninth circuit, in San Francisco, and each year in two other

places in said circuit to be designated by the judges of said court;

and in each of the above circuits, terms may be held at such other

times and in such other places as said courts, respectively, may from

time to time designate : Provided, That terms shall be held in Atlanta Proviso.

on the first Monday in October, in Fort Worth on the first Monday in Designated terms.

November, in Montgomery on the third Monday in October, in Den-

ver or in Cheyenne on the first Monday in September, and in Saint Paul on the first Monday in May. All appeals, writs of error, and GePorrgoicae, eTdeixansg,saindn

other appellate proceedings which may be taken or prosecuted from AlVaobl.a3m2a,. pp. 648, 756, the district courts of the United States in the State of Georgia, in the 784.

State of Texas, and in the State of Alabama, to the circuit court of

appeals for the fifth judicial circuit shall be heard and disposed of, respectively, by said court at the terms held in Atlanta, in Fort

Worth, and in Montgomery, except that appeals or writs of error in

cases of injunctions and in all other cases which, under the statutes

and rules, or in the opinion of the court, are entitled to be brought to a.

speedy hearing may be heard and disposed of wherever said court

may be sitting. All appeals, writs of errors, and other appellate pro- atABpepeaaulmsonftr,oTmecxo.u, trot

ceedings

which

may

hereafter

be

taken

or

prosecuted

from the

dis- New Orleans. Vol. 33, p. 59.

trict court of the United States at Beaumont, Texas, to the circuit

court of appeals for the fifth circuit, shall be heard and disposed of by

the said circuit court of appeals at the terms of court held at New Orleans: Provided, That nothing herein shall prevent the court from

hearing appeals or writs of error wherever the said courts shall sit,

in cases of injunctions and in all other cases which, under the statutes

and the rules, or in the opinion of the court, are entitled to be brought to a speedy hearing. All appeals, writs of error, and other appellate anHdeaCrhienygesnante.Denver proceedings which may be taken or prosecuted from the district Vol. 32, p. 329.

courts of the United States in the States of Colorado, Utah, and

Wyoming, and the supreme court of the Territory of New Mexico to

the circuit court of appeals for the eighth judicial circuit, shall be

: heard and disposed of by said court at the terms held either in Denver or in Cheyenne, except that any case arising in any of said States or

Territory may, by consent of all the parties, be heard and disposed of

at a term of said court other than the one held in Denver or Cheyenne.. Court rooms in pubSEC. 127. The marshals for the several districts in which said circuitlic buildings.
courts of appeals may be held shall, under the direction of the Attor- Vol. 26, p. 829.

ney General, and with his approval, provide such rooms in the

public buildings of the United States as may be necessary for the
business of said courts, and pay all incidental expenses of said court, Proviso. including criers, bailiffs, and messengers: Provided, That incase proper eases permitted.

rooms can not be provided in such buildings, then, the marshals,

with the approval of the Attorney General, may, from time to time,

lease such rooms as may be necessary for such courts.

SEC. 128. The circuit courts of appeals shall exercise appellate JVuorli.s2d6i,ctpi.o8n2.8. jurisdiction to review by appeal or writ of error final decisions in

the district courts, including the United States district court for

Hawaii, in all cases other than those in which appeals and writs

of error may be taken direct to the Supreme Court, as provided in Post, p. 1157.

section two hundred and thirty-eight, unless otherwise provided by

law;

and, except as provided in sections two hundred and thirty-

Decision final. Exceptions.

nine and two hundred and forty, the judgments and decrees of the Post,p. 1167.

circuit courts of appeals shall be final in all cases in which the juris-

diction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit .

or controversy being aliens and citizens of the United States, or citizens of different States: also in all cases arising under the patent

1134

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

laws, under the copyright laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal laws, and in admiralty cases. Appeals in proceed- SEO. 129. Where upon a hearing in equity in a district court, or ingrsecefiovrerisn.junctions by a judge thereof in vacation, an injunction shall be granted, con-
28,Vopl. .62666, :pV. o8l2.8:31V,opl.. tinued, refused, or dissolved by an interlocutory order or decree, 660: Vol. 34. p. 116. or an application to dissolve an injunction shall be refused, or an
interlocutory order or decree shall be made appointing a receiver,

an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order or decree granting, continuing, refusing, dissolving, or refusing to dissolve, an injunction, or appointing a receiver, to the circuit court of appeals, notwithstanding an appeal in such case might, upon final decree

Provisos.

under the statutes regulating the same, be taken directly to the Supreme Court: Provided, That the appeal must be taken within

peParle. cedence of ap- thirty days from the entry of such order or decree, and it shall take

precedence in the appellate court; and the proceedings in other

respects in the court below shall not be stayed unless otherwise

ordered by that court, or the appellate court, or a judge thereof,

Additional bond. during the pendency of such appeal : Provided, however, That the

court below may, in its discretion, require as a condition of the

appeal an additional bond.

Appeals in bank-

ruptcy.

SEO. 130. The circuit courts of appeals shall have the appellate

Vol. 30, p. 553. and supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon them by the Act enti-

tled "An Act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout

the United States," approved July first, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and all laws amendatory thereof, and shall exercise the same in

the manner therein prescribed .

Review of decisions

of United States court SEC. 131. The circuit court of appeals for the ninth circuit is

for China.

empowered to hear and determine writs of error and appeals from the

Vol. 34,p. 814.

United States court for China, as provided in the Act entitled "An

Act creating a United States court for China and prescribing the

Powers ofjudges. Vol. 26, p. 829.

jurisdiction thereof," approved June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and six .
SEC. 132. Any judge of a circuit court of appeals, in respect of cases brought orto be brought before that court, shall have the same powers and duties as to allowances of appeals and writs of error, and the con-

ditions of such allowances, as by law belong to the justices or judges

Appeals, etc., from in respect of other courts of the United States, respectively. Arizona and New SEO. 133. The circuit courts of appeals, in cases in which their judg-
cMoeurxtis.co supreme ments and decrees are made final by this title, shall have appellate Vol. 26, p. 830. jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to review the judgments,

orders, and decrees of the supreme courts of Arizona and NewMexico , as by this title they may have to review the judgments, orders, and

decrees of the district courts ; and for that purpose said Territories

shall, by orders of the Supreme Court of the United States, to be

made from time to time, be assigned to particular circuits.

Review of decisions SEC. 134. In all cases other than those in which a writ of error or of Alaska district

court.

appeal will lie direct to the Supreme Court of the United States as

Vol. 30, p. 1307.

Post, p. 1157.

provided in section two hundred and forty-seven, in which the amount

involved or the value of the subject-matter in controversy shall

exceed five hundred dollars, and in all criminal cases, writs of error

and appeals shall lie from the district court for Alaska or from any
division thereof, to the circuit court of appeals for the ninth circuit,
and the judgments, orders, and decrees of said court shall be final in Certifyingquestions all such cases. But whenever such circuit court of appeals may to Supreme Court.
desire the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United States upon
any question or proposition of law which shall have arisen in any

such case, the court may certify such question or proposition to the Supreme Court, and thereupon the Supreme Court shall give its

instruction upon the question or proposition certified to it, and its

instructions shall be binding upon the circuit court of appeals.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1135

SEC. 135. All appeals, and writs of error, and other cases, coming ciAspcop,ealPsoartlSaanndF, raonr from the district court for the district of Alaska to the circuit court of Seattle.
Vol. 35, p. 535. appeals for the ninth circuit, shall be entered upon the docket and heard at San Francisco, California, or at Portland, Oregon, or at Seattle, Washington, as the trial court before whom the case was tried
below shall fix and determine: Provided, That at any time before the PAgrroetemoent of attor hearing of any appeal, writ of error, or other case, the parties thereto, neys.
through their respective attorneys, may stipulate at which of the
above-named places the same shall be heard, in which case the case shall be remitted to and entered upon the docket at the place so stipulated and shall be heard there.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

Chapter 7.

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Court of Claims.

Sec.

Seo.

136. Appointment, oath, and salary of | 160. Petition dismissed, when.

judges.

161. Burden of proof and evidence as to

137. Seal.

loyalty.

138. Session; quorum. 139. Officers ofthe court.

162. C·laims for proceeds arising from sales of abandoned property.

140. Salaries of officers. 141. Clerk's bond.
142. Contingent'fund.

163. Commissioners to take testimony. 164. Power to call upon departments for
information.

143. Reports to Congress; copies for de- 165. When testimony not to be taken.

partments, etc.

166. Examination of claimant.

144. Members of Congress not to practice 167. Testimony; where taken.

in the court.

168. Witnesses. before commissioners.

145. Jurisdiction.

169. Cross-examinations.

Par. 1. Claims against the United States.
2. Set-offs.
3. Disbursing officers.

170. Witnesses; how sworn. 171. Fees of commissioners, by whom
paid. 172. Claims forfeited for fraud.

146. Judgments for set-off or counter- 173. Claims under act of June 16, 1874.

claims; how enforced.

174. New trial on motion of claimant.

147. Decree on accounts of disbursing of- 175: Newtrial on motion of United States.

ficers.

176. Cost of printing record.

148. Claims referred by departments.

177. No interest on claims.

149. Procedure in cases transmitted by. 178. Effect of payment of judgment.

departments.

179. Final judgments a bar.

150. Judgments in cases transmitted by. 180. Debtors to the United States may

departments; how paid.

have amount due ascertained.

151. Either House of Congress may refer 181. Appeals.

certain claims to court.

182. Appeals.in Indian cases.

152. Costs, may be allowed prevailing | 183. Attorney General's report to Con-

party.

gress.

153. Claims growing out of treaties not 184. Lo cognizable therein. tyaailntycaasejsu.risdictional fact in cer-

154. Claims pending in other courts. 155. Aliens.

185. Attorney General to appear for the defense .

156. All claims to be filed within six 186. Persons not to be excluded as wit-

years; exceptions.

nesses on account of color or be-

157. Rules of practice; may punish contempts.
158. Oaths and acknowledgments. 159. Petitions and verification.

cause of interest; plaintiff may be witness for Government.
187. Reports of court to Congress.

SEC. 136. The Court of Claims, established by the Act of February ,juCsontsitcietuteadnodf cfhoiuerf twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and fifty-five, shall be continued. JuRd.gSe.s,.sec. 1049, p.19.4 It shall consist of a chief justice and four judges, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and hold their offices during good behavior. Eachof them shall oath. take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States, and to
discharge faithfully the duties of his office. The chief justice,shall be Salaries.
entitled to receive an annual salary of six thousand five hundred dollars, and each of the other judges an annual salary of six thousand dollars, payable monthly, from the Treasury.

1136

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Seal. R. S., Bec. 1050,p. 194. SEO. 137. The Court of Claims shall have a seal, with such device
as it may order.

Sessions.

SEC. 138. The Court of Claims shall hold one annual session at the

R. S., sec. 1051,p. 194.

city of Washington, beginning on the first Monday in December and

Quorum.

continuing as long as may be necessary for the prompt disposition of the business of the court. Any three of the judges of said court shall

Proviso. Decisions.

constitute a quorum, and may hold a court for the transaction of business: Provided, That the concurrence of three judges shall be

Officers.

necessary to the decision of any case.

R. S.,sec. 1051, p. 194. SEC. 139. The said court shall appoint a chief clerk, an assistant

clerk, if deemed necessary, a bailiff, and a chief messenger. The clerks

shall take an oath for the faithful discharge of their duties, and shall

be under the direction of the court in the performance thereof; and for

Bailiff.

misconduct or incapacity they may be removed by it from office; but the court shall report such removals, with the cause thereof, to Congress, ifin session, or if not, at the next session. The bailiff shall hold

his office for a term of four years, unless sooner removed by the court
for cause. Salaries of officers. R.S., sec. 1054,p. 194. SEC. 140. The salary of the chief clerk shall be three thousand five
hundred dollars a year; of the assistant clerk two thousand five hun-

dred dollars a year; of the bailiff one thousand five hundred dollars a

year, and of the chief messenger one thousand dollars a year, payable

monthly from the Treasury. Bond of chief clerk. SEC. 141. The chief clerk shall give bond to the United States in R.S., sec. 1055,p. 195.
such amount, in such form, and with such security as shall be approved

by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Disbursements of SEO. 142. The said clerk shall have authority when he has given

contingent fund. R.S. ,sec. 1056, p. 195.

bond

as

provided

in

the

preceding

section,

to

disburse,

under

the

direction of the court, the contingent fund which may from time to

time be appropriated for its use; and his accounts shall be settled by

the proper accounting officers of the Treasury in the same way as the

accounts of other disbursing agents of the Government are settled.

Statement of judg-

mentsto Congress.

SEO. 143. On the first day of every regular session of Congress, the

clerk of the Court of Claims shall transmit to Congress a full and com-

plete statement of all the judgments rendered by the court during the previous year, stating the amounts thereof and the parties in whose

favor they were rendered, together with a brief synopsis of the nature meDnetcsi,seitocn.s toDepart of the claims upon which they were rendered. At the end of every
term of the court he shall transmit a copy of its decisions to the heads of departments ; to the Solicitor, the Comptroller, and the Auditors of
the Treasury; to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and of

Indian Affairs ; to the chiefs of bureaus, and to other, officers charged

with the adjustment of claims against the United States.

· Punishment for Members of Congress,

SEO. 144. Whoever, being elected or appointed a Senator, Member

etc., practicing in, of, or Delegate to Congress, or a Resident Commissioner, shall, after

his election or appointment, and either before or after he has qualified;

and during his continuance in office, practice in the Court of Claims,

shall be fined not more than ten thousand dollars and imprisoned not

more than two years; and shall, moreover, thereafter be incapable of

holding any office of honor, trust, or profit under the Government

of the United States.

Jurisdiction. Vol. 24. p,505.

SEC. 145. The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and

determine the following matters :

Chains on contracts with United States.

First. All claims (except for pensions) founded upon the Constitu-

tion of the United States or any law of Congress, upon any regulation

of an Executive Department, upon any contract, express or implied,

Samages,not sound with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquiing a tort.
dated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of

which claims the party would be entitled to redress against the United States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty if the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1137

United States were suable: Provided, however, That nothing in this PWraovrisoclaims, etc., section shall be construed as giving to the said court jurisdiction to barred.
hear and determine claims growing out of the late civil war, and commonly known as " war claims," or to hear and determine other
claims which, prior to March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-
seven, had been rejected or reported on adversely by any court, department, or commission authorized to hear and determine the same.
Second. All set-offs, counterclaims, claims for damages, whether ofCtohuentGeorvcelranimse,net.c.,
liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the Government of the United States against any claimant against Proviso. the Government in said court: Provided, That no suit against the Restriction on suits Government of the United States, brought by any officer of the for official services. United States to recover fees for services alleged to have been per. formed for the United States, shall be allowed under this chapter until an account for said fees shall have been rendered and finally acted upon as required by law, unless the proper accounting officer of the Treasury fails to act finally thereon within six months after the account is received in said office.
Third. The claim of any paymaster, quartermaster, commissary of ofLflodsesres.s bydisbursing subsistence, or other disbursing officer of the United States, or of his
administrators or executors, for relief from responsibility on account of loss by capture or otherwise, while in the line of his duty, of Gov.
ernment funds, vouchers, records, or papers in his charge, and for
which such officer was and is held responsible. Determination of
SEO. 146. Upon the trial of any cause in which any set-off, coun- counterclaims, etg. terclaim, claim for damages, or other demand is set up on the part 2.8. , sec.1061 , p. 194. of the Government against any person making claim against the Government in said court, the court shall hear and determine such
claim or demand both for and against the Government and claimant ; and if upon the whole case it finds that the claimant is indebted to
the Government it shall render judgment to that effect, and such
judgment shall be final, with the right of appeal, as in other cases Enforcement provided for by law. Any transcript of such judgment, filed in the againstclaimant. clerk's office of any district court, shall be entered upon the records
thereof, and shall thereby become and be a judgment of such court and be enforced as other judgments in such court are enforced .
SEO. 147. Whenever the Court of Claims ascertains the facts of any ofDdeicsrbeuersoinngaocfcfoicuenrtss lass by any paymaster, quartermaster, commissary of subsistence, or B.S.sec.1062, p.186.. other disbursing officer, in the cases hereinbefore provided, to have
been without fault or negligence on the part of such officer, it shall make a decree setting forth the amount thereof, and upon such
decree the proper accounting officers of the Treasury shall allow to such officer the amount so decreed as a credit in the settlement of his accounts.
Claims referred by. SEO. 148. When any claim or matter is pending in any of the departments.
executive departments which involves controverted questions of vVo1l0. 2.2,1p.04865;3V,opl. .12946, fact or law, the head of such department may transmit the same, p.507.
with the vouchers, papers, documents and proofs pertaining thereto, to the Court of Claims and the same shall be there proceeded in under ´such rules as the court may adopt. When the facts and conclusions Findings.
of law shall have been found, the court shall report its findings to the department by which it was transmitted for its guidance and action: Provided, however, That if it shall have been transmitted JPruodvgimseo.nts in cerwith the consent of the claimant, or if it shall appear to the satisfac- tain cases. tion of the court upon the facts established, that under existing laws or the provisions of this chapter it has jurisdiction to render judgment or decree thereon, it shall proceed to do so, in the latter case giving
to either party such further opportunity for hearing as in its judgment justice shall require, and shall report its findings therein to the

1138

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

teTrrsansfmritotmal doefpmaartt- department by which the same was referred to said court. The

ments.

Secretary of the Treasury may, upon the certificate of any auditor, or

of the Comptroller of the Treasury, direct any claim or matter, of which, by reason of the subject matter or character, the said court

might under existing laws, take jurisdiction on the voluntary action of the claimant, to be transmitted, with all the vouchers, papers,.

documents and proofs pertaining thereto, to the said court for trial

and adjudication.

Procedure. R. S., sec. 1064, p. 197.

SEO. 149. All cases transmitted by the head of any department,

or upon the certificate of any auditor, or of the Comptroller of the

Treasury, according to the provisions of the preceding section, shall

be proceeded in as other cases pending in the Court of Claims, and

shall, in all respects, be subject to the same rules and regulations.

Payment of judg ments.

SEC. 150. The amount of any final judgment or decree rendered in

R.S.. sec. 1065, p. 197. favor of the claimant, in any case transmitted to the Court of Claims

under the two preceding sections, shall be paid out of any specific appropriation applicable to the case, if any such there be ; and where

no such appropriation exists, the judgment or decree shall be paid

in the same manner as other judgments of the said court.

Claims referred by Congress.

SEO. 151. Whenever any bill, except for a pension, is pending in

Vol. 24, p. 507. Ante, p. 837.

either House of Congress providing for the payment of a claim against

the United States, legal or equitable, or for a grant, gift, or bounty

to any person, the House in which such bill is pending may, for the

investigation and determination of facts, refer the same to the Court

of Claims, which shall proceed with the same in accordance with

Report of facts, etc. such rules as it may adopt and report to such House the facts in the

case and the amount, where the same can be liquidated, including any facts bearing upon the question whether there has been delay

or laches in presenting such claim or applying for such grant, gift, or bounty, and any facts bearing upon the question whether the bar of any statute of limitation should be removed or which shall be

Conclusions.

claimed to excuse the claimant for not having resorted to any established legal remedy, together with such conclusions as shall be sufficient to inform Congress of the nature and character of the demand,

either as a claim, legal or equitable, or as a gratuity against the

Proviso.

United States, and the amount, if any, legally or equitably due from

Further hearings, the United States to the claimant : Provided, however, Thatif it shall

etc.

appear to the satisfaction of the court upon the facts established,

that under existing laws or the provisions of this chapter, the subject matter of the bill is such that it has jurisdiction to render judgment

or decree thereon, it shall proceed to do so, giving to either party such further opportunity for hearing as in its judgment justice shall require, and it shall report its proceedings therein to the House of

Congress by which the same was referred to said court.

Allowance of costs.

Vol. 21, p. 508.

SEC. 152. If the Government of the United States shall put in

issue the right of the plaintiff to recover, the court may, in its dis-

cretion, allow costs to the prevailing party from the time of joining
such issue. Such costs, however, shall include only what is actually incurred for witnesses, and for summoning the same, and fees paid to the clerk of the court. baTrrreeda. ty claims SEC. 153. The jurisdiction of the said court shall not extend to

R.S.,sec. 1066, p. 197. any claim against the Government not pending therein on December

first, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, growing out of or dependent
on any treaty stipulation entered into with foreign nations or with
the Indian tribes. otChleairmscpoeunrdtisngeixn- SEC. 154. No person shall file or prosecute in the Court of Claims, cluded.
R. S.,sec. 1067, p. 197. or in the Supreme Court on appeal therefrom, any cliam for or in respect to which he or any assignee of his has pending in any other
court any suit or process against any person who, at the time when the cause of action alleged in such suit or process arose, was, in

respect thereto, acting or professing to act, mediately or immediately. under the authority of the United States.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1139

SEO. 155. Aliens who are citizens or subjects of any government Reciprocal rights to which accords to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute R. S. , sec. 1063, p. 197.

claims against such government in its courts, shall have the privilege of prosecuting claims against the United States in the Court of

Claims, whereof such court, by reason of their subject matter and

character, might take jurisdiction.

SEO.

156.

Every

claim

against

the

United

States

cognizable

by Claims to be filed within six years.

the Court of Claims, shall be forever barred unless the petition setting R.S. , scc. 1069, p. 197.

forth a statement thereof is filed in the court, or transmitted to it by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representa-

tives, as provided by law, within six years after the claim first accrues : Proviso. Provided, That the claims of married women, first accrued during Rights of married

marriage, of persons under the age of twenty-one years, first accrued women, minors, etc. during minority, and of idiots, lunatics, insane persons, and persons

beyond the seas at the time the claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if the petition be filed in the court or transmitted,

as aforesaid, within three years after the disability has ceased; but no other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from being barred, nor shall any of the said disabilities operate cumulatively.

SEO. 157. The said court shall have power to establish rules for etcR.ules of practice, its government and for the regulation of practice therein, and it may .s.,sec. 1070, p. 198.
punish for contempt in the manner prescribed by the common law,

may appoint commissioners, and may exercise such powers as are

necessary to carry into effect the powers granted to it by law.

SEC. 158. The judges and clerks of said court may administer ORa.St.h,ss,eect.c1.071, p. 193. oaths and affirmations; take acknowledgments of instruments in

writing, and give certificates of the same.

SEO. 159. The claimant shall in all cases fully set forth in his peti- PDetiatiliso.ns. tion the claim, the action thereon in Congress or by any of the depart R.S.,sec. 1072, p. 198.
ments, if such action has been had, what persons are owners thereof

or interested therein, when and upon what consideration such persons became so interested ; that no assignment or transfer of said claim

or of any part thereof or interest therein has been made, except as stated in the petition; that said claimant is justly entitled to the

amount therein claimed from the United States after allowing all

just credits and offsets; that the claimant and, where the claim has Allegiance, etc. been assigned, the original and every prior owner thereof, if a citizen, has at all times borne true allegiance to the Government of

the United States, and, whether a citizen or not, has not in any way voluntarily aided, abetted, or given encouragement to rebellion

against the said Government, and that he believes the facts as stated
in the said petition to be true. The said petition shall be verified Verification. by the affidavit of the claimant, his agent or attorney.
SEO. 160. The said allegations as to true allegiance and volun- giDiasnmicsesa,l eitfc.a, ldlies.tary aiding, abetting, or giving encouragement to rebellion against prRo.vSe.n,.sec. 1073, p. 198. the Government may be traversed by the Government, and if on the trial such issues shall be decided against the claimant, his petition shall be dismissed.

SEC. 161. Whenever it is material in any claim to ascertain whether quPirroeodf, iofmfaltoeyrailatly.reany person did or did not give any aid or comfort to forces or gov- R.S.,sec. 1074, p. 198. ernment of the late Confederate States during the Civil War, the

claimant asserting the loyalty of any such person to the United States during such Civil War shall be required to prove affirmatively

that such person did, during said Civil War, consistently adhere to the United States and did give no aid or comfort to persons engaged in said Confederate service in said Civil War.

SEO. 162. The Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to hear and afPterroJupneer1t, y186t5.aken
determine the claims of those whose property was taken subsequent teJrumriinsdeiccltaiiomnstfoor.deto June the first, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, under the pro- Vol. 12, p. 820.

1140

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

visions of the Act of Congress approved March twelfth, eighteen

hundred and sixty-three, entitled " An Act to provide for the collec-

tion of abandoned property and for the prevention of frauds in

insurrectionary districts within the United States," and Acts amenda-

tory thereof where the property so taken was sold and the net pro-

Return ofproceeds ceeds thereof were placed in the Treasury of the United States ; and

the Secretary of the Treasury shall return said net proceeds to the

owners thereof, on the judgment of said court, and full jurisdiction

is given to said court to adjudge said claims, any statutes of limi-

Commissioners to tations to the contrary notwithstanding.

take testimony.

SEC. 163. The Court of Claims shall have power to appoint com-

B.S.,sec. 1075, p. 198. missioners to take testimony to be used in the investigation ofclaims

which come before it, to prescribe the fees which they shall receive

for their services, and to issue commissions for the taking of such

testimony, whether taken at the instance of the claimant or of the

United States.

Information, etc., from departments

SEO. 164. The said court shall have power to call upon any of the

and Congress.

departments for any information or papers it may deem necessary,

R. S. ,sec. 1076, p. 193. and shall have the use of all recorded and printed reports made by

the committees of each House of Congress, when deemed necessary

paDritsmcernet.ion of de in the prosecution of its business. But the head of any department may refuse and omit to comply with any call for information or papers

when, in his opinion, such compliance would be injurious to the

public interest.

When testimony is not to be taken.

SEO. 165. When it appears to the court in any case that the facts

B.B. ,sec.1077, p. 198. set forth in the petition of the claimant do not furnish any ground

for relief, it shall not authorize the taking of any testimony therein.

Examination of claimant.

SEO. 166. The court may, at the instance of the attorney or solicitor

R.S.,Sec. 1080, p. 199. appearing in behalf of the United States, make an order in any case

pending therein, directing any claimant in such case to appear, upon

reasonable notice, before any commissioner of the court and be

examined on oath touching any or all matters pertaining to said

claim. Such examination shall be reduced to writing by the said

commissioner, and be returned to and filed in the court, and may,

at the discretion of the attorney or solicitor of the United States

appearing in the case, be read and used as evidence on the trial

teAstcitfiyo, entoc.n failure to thereof. And if any claimant, after such order is made and due and reasonable notice thereof is given to him, fails to appear, or refuses

to testify or answer fully as to all matters within his knowledge

material to the issue, the court may, in its discretion, order that

the said cause shall not be brought forward for trial until he shall

Place for taking tes- have fully complied with the order of the court in the premises.

timony.

SEO. 167. The testimony in cases pending before the Court of

R.S. ,sec. 1081 , p. 199. Claims shall be taken in the county where the witness resides, when

the same can be conveniently done.

Issue ofsubpoenas. R. 8.,sec. 1082, p. 199.

' SEC. 168. The Court of Claims may issue subpoenas to require the

attendance of witnesses in order to be examined before any person

commissioned to take testimony therein . Such subpoenas shall

have the same force as if issued from a district court, and compli-
ance therewith shall be compelled under such rules, and orders as the court shall establish. Cross-examinations. R. S.,bec. 1083, p. 199. SEO. 169. In taking testimony to be used in support of any claim,
opportunity shall be given to the United States to file interroga-

tories, or by attorney to examine witnesses, under.such regulations

as said court shall prescribe; and like opportunity shall be afforded

the claimant, in cases where testimony is taken on behalf of the.
United States, under like regulations. Oathsto witnesses R S.,sec. 1034,p.199. SEO. 170. The commissioner taking testimony to be used in the
Court of Claims shall administer an oath or affirmation to the wit-

nesses brought before him for examination.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1141

SEO. 171. When testimony is taken for the claimant, the fees of CRo.m8m.i,ssseico.n10e8r5',spf.e1e9s9,. the commissioner before whom it is taken, and the cost of the com-

mission and notice, shall be paid by such claimant; and when it is taken at the instance of the Government, such fees shall be paid out of the contingent fund provided for the Court of Claims, or other

appropriation made by Congress for that purpose.

Claims forfeited for

SEO. 172. Any person who corruptly practices or attempts to fraud.

practice any fraud against the United States in the proof, statement, R.S.,sec. 1086, p. 199.

establishment, or allowance of any claim or of any part of any claim against the United States shall, ipso facto, forfeit the same to the Government; and it shall be the duty of the Court of Claims, in such

cases, to find specifically that such fraud was practiced or attempted to be practiced, and thereupon to give judgment that such claim is forfeited to the Government, and that the claimant be forever barred

from prosecuting the same. SEO. 173. No claim shall be allowed by the accounting officers clFaiomus.rth of July
under the provisions of the Act of Congress approved June sixteenth, Nottobe allowed if eighteen hundred and seventy-four, or by the Court of Claims, or by waictlufaullllyoissn. excess of Congress, to any person where such claimant, or those under whom VVooll.. 1280,, pp.. 7552.4. he claims, shall willfully, knowingly, and with intent to defraud the

United States, have claimed more than was justly due in respect of

such claim, or presented any false evidence to Congress, or to any department or court, in support thereof.

SEC. 174. When judgment is rendered against any claimant, the quNesetwoftcrliaalismaonnt. recourt may grant a new trial for any reason which, by the rules of R. S. ,sec. 1037, p. 200. common law or chancery in suits between individuals, would furnish

sufficient ground for granting a new trial.

SEO. 175. The Court of Claims, at any time while any claim is ofNUeniwtterdiaSltoantemso. tion pending before it, or on appeal from it, or within two years next after R. B. ,sec. 1033, p. 200. the final disposition of such claim, may, on motion, on behalf of the United States, grant a new trial and stay the payment of any judg-

ment therein, upon such evidence, cumulative or otherwise, as shall

satisfy the court that any fraud, wrong, or injustice in the premises has been done to the United States; but until an order is made stay-

ing the payment of a judgment, the same shall be payable and paid

as now provided by law.

SEO. 176. There shall be taxed against the losing party in each tarxeed satgailnost rleocsoirndg
and every cause pending in the Court of Claims the cost of printing paVrotly.. 19, p. 344. . the record in such case, which shall be collected, except when the

judgment is against the United States, by the clerk of said court and paid into the Treasury of the United States.

SEO. 177. No interest shall be allowed on any claim up to the time IRn.tSe.r,essetc.a1l0l91o,wpa.n2c0e0. of the rendition of judgment thereon by the Court of Claims, unless

upon a contract expressly stipulating for the payment of interest.

SEO. 178. The payment of the amount due by any judgment of the chPaarygme.ent a full disCourt of Claims, and of any interest thereon allowed by law, as pro- RS. ,sec. 1092, p. 200.
vided by law, shall be a full discharge to the United States of all claim

and demand touching any of the matters involved in the controversy.

SEO. 179. Any final judgment against the claimant on any claim baFri.nal judgments a prosecuted as provided in this chapter shall forever bar any further R.S.,sec. 1093, p. 200. claim or demand against the United States arising out of the matters involved in the controversy.

SEO. 180. Whenever any person shall present his petition to the mePenttitioofnsunfaodrjsuetsttle-d Court of Claims alleging that he is or has been indebted to the United acVcoolu.n2ts4,, bpo. 5n0d5s., etc. States as an officer or agent thereof, or by virtue of any contract therewith, or that he is the guarantor, or surety, or personal repre-

sentative of any officer or agent or contractor so indebted, or that he or the person for whom he is such surety, guarantor, or personal representative has held any office or agency under the United States, or entered into any contract therewith, under.which it may be or has
? 88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-74

1142

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

been claimed that an indebtedness to the United States had arisen

and exists, and that he or the person he represents has applied to the

proper department of the Government requesting that the account of such office, agency, or indebtedness may be adjusted and settled, and that three years have elapsed from the date of such application, and said account still remains unsettled and unadjusted, and that no

suit upon the same has been brought by the United States, said court meNnotti. ce to depart shall, due notice first being given to the head of said department and

to the Attorney General of the United States, proceed to hear the parties and to ascertain the amount, if any, due the United States on

said account. The Attorney General shall represent the United States

at the hearing of said cause. The court may postpone the same from meFninta.lity of judg- time to time whenever justice shall require. The judgment of said
court or of the Supreme Court of the United States, to which an appeal

shall lie, as in other cases, as to the amount due, shall be binding and conclusive upon the parties. The payment of such amount so found meAnctt. ion on judg- due by the court shall discharge such obligation. An action shall accrue to the United States against such principal, or surety, or rep-

resentative to recover the amount so found due, which may be brought

Examinations. Ante, p. 1140.

at any time within three years after the final judgment of said court; and unless suit shall be brought within said time, such claim and the
claim on the original indebtedness shall be forever barred. The provisions of section one hundred and sixty-six shall apply to cases under this section.

Appeals. Vol. 24, p. 507. Post, p. 1157.

SEC. 181. The plaintiff or the United States, in any suit brought under the provision of the section last preceding, shall have the same

right of appeal as is conferred under sections two hundred and forty-

two and two hundred and forty-three; and such right shall be exer-

Appeals in Indian cised only within the time and in the manner therein prescribed. -

cases, etc.

SEC, 182. In any case brought in the Court of Claims under any

Act of Congress by which that court is authorized to render a judg

ment or decree against the United States, or against any Indian tribe or any Indians, or against any fund held in trust by the United States

Post, p. 1157.

for any Indian tribe or for any Indians, the claimant, or the United States, or the tribe of Indians, or other party in interest shall have

the same right of appeal as is conferred under sections two hundred and forty-two and two hundred and forty-three; and such right shall

be exercised only within the time and in themanner therein prescribed.

Report of suits on bonds, etc.

SEC. 183. The Attorney General shall report to Congress, at the

Vol. 24, p. 507.

beginning of each regular session, the suits under section one hun-

dred and eighty, in which a final judgment or decree has been rendered,

giving the date of each and a statement of the costs taxed in each case.

tiLonoaylalftaycta ijnuricsadsiecs SEC. 184. In any case of a claim for supplies or stores taken by or growing out ofCivil furnished to any part of the military or naval forces of the United
War. Vol. 22, p. 485. States for their use during the late Civil War, the petition shall aver

that the person who furnished such supplies or stores, or from whom

such supplies or stores were taken, did not give any aid or comfort to
said rebellion, but was throughout that war loyal to the Government
of the United States, and the fact of such loyalty shall be a jurisdicDismissal if not tional fact; and unless the said court shall, on a preliminary inquiry, proved.
find that the person who furnished such supplies or stores, or from
whom the same were taken as aforesaid, was loyal to the Govern-

ment of the United States throughout said war, the court shall not

have jurisdiction of such cause, and the same shall, without further

proceedings, be dismissed.

Duty of Attorney SEC. 185. The Attorney-General, or his assistants under his direcGeneral, etc

Vol. 22. p. 456

tion, shall appear for the defense and protection of the interests of

the United States in all cases which may be transmitted to the Court

of Claims under the provisions of this chapter, with the same power

to interpose counter claims, offsets, defenses for fraud practiced or

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1143

attempted to be practiced by claimants, and other defenses, in like manner as he is required to defend the United States in said court.

SEO. 186. No person shall be excluded as a witness in the Court of clWuidtendessebsecanuoste exo-f

Claims on account of color, because he or she is a party to or inter- colVoorlo. r24i,npte.r5e0s6t..

ested in the cause or proceeding; and any plaintiff or party in interest

may.be examined as a witness on the part of the Government.

SEC.

187.

Reports

of the

Court

of Claims

to Congress,

under

Reports to Congress sec- continued until acted

tions one hundred and forty-eight and one hundred and fifty-one, upVoonl.. 22, p. 486.

if not finally acted upon during the session at which they are reported, Ante,pp. 1157, 1138.

shall be continued from session to session and from Congress to Con-

gress until the same shall be finally acted upon.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

Chapter8.

THE COURT OF CUSTOMS APPEALS.

Court of Customs Appeals.

Sec.
188. Court of Customs Appeals; appointmentand salary ofjudges; quorum; circuit and district judges may act in place of judge disqualified , etc.
189. Courtto be always open forbusiness; terms may be held in any circuit;
when expenses of judges to be paid. 190: Marshal of the court; appointment, salary, and duties. 191. Clerk of the court; appointment, salary, and duties.
192. Assistant clerk, stenographic clerks, · and reporter; appointment, salary, and duties.
193. Rooms for holding court to be provided; bailiffs and messengers.
194. To be a court of record; to prescribe form and style of seal, and establish rules and regulations; may affirm, modify, or reverse and remand case, etc.

Seo.
195. Final decisions of Board of General Appraisers to be reviewed only by Customs Court.
196. Other courts deprived of jurisdiction in customs cases; pending cases
excepted . 197. Transfer to Customs Court of pend-
ingcases; completion oftestimony. 198. Appeals from Board of General Ap-
praisers; time within which to be
taken; record to be transmitted to customs court.
199. Records filed in Customs Court to be at once placed on calendar; calendar to becalled everysixty days.

SEO. 188. There shall be a United States Court of Customs Appeals, inTgoacnodnsfiosutroafspsroecsiiadtee which shall consist of a presiding judge and four associate judges, judges,salary. each of whom shall be appointed by the President, by and with the Ante, p. 105.

advice and consent of the Senate, and shall receive a salary of seven

thousand dollars a year. The presiding judge shall be so designated Presiding judge.

in the order of appointment and in the commission issued to him by

the President; and the associate judges shall have precedence ac-

cording to the date of their commissions. Any three members of Quorum.

said court shall constitute a quorum, and the concurrence of three

members shall be necessary to any decision thereof.

In case of a

Vacancies. Public laws,1st sess.,

vacancy or of the temporary inability or disqualification, for any p. 107.

reason, of one or two of the judges of said court, the President may,

upon the request of the presiding judge of said court, designate any

qualified United States circuit or district judge or judges to act in his or their place ; and such circuit or district judges shall be duly

qualified to so act.
SEO. 189. The said Court of Customs Appeals shall always be open ASelswsaiyonssoipnent.he sevfor the transaction of business, and sessions thereof may, in the dis- eral circuits. cretion of the court, be held in the several judicial circuits, and at such
places as said court may from time to time designate. Any judge Allowance for who, in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, shall attend a travel, etc., expenses.

session of said court at any place other than the city of Washington, shall be paid, upon his written and itemized certificate, by the mar shal of the district in which the court shall be held, his actual and necessary expenses incurred for travel and attendance, and the

1144 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III, CH. 231. 1911 .

actual and necessary expenses of one stenographic clerk who may

accompany him; and such payments shall be allowed the marshal

in the settlement of his accounts with the United States.

Marshal. Ante, p. 105,

SEC. 190. Said court shall have the services of a marshal, with the

In District of Co- same duties and powers, under the regulations of the court, as are

lumbia.

now provided for the marshal of the Supreme Court of the United

States, so far as the same may be applicable. Said services within

the District of Columbia shall be performed by a marshal to be appointed by and to hold office during the pleasure of the court, who

Outside theDistrict. shall receive a salary of three thousand dollars per annum. Said services outside of the District of Columbia shall be performed by the United States marshals in and for the districts where sessions of said

court may be held ; and to this end said marshals shall be the marshals
peCnsoenst. ingent ex- of said court. The marshal of said court, for the District of Columbia, is authorized to purchase, under the direction of the presiding judge,

such books, periodicals, and stationery, as may be necessary for the

use of said court ; and such expenditures shall be allowed and paid

by the Secretary of the Treasury upon claim duly made and approved

Clerk.

by said presiding judge. SEO. 191. The court shall appoint a clerk, whose office shall be in the

toOnf,fDi.ceC.in Washing city of Washington, District of Columbia, and who shall perform and

Anfe, p. 105.

exercise the same duties and powers in regard to all matters within

the jurisdiction of said court as are now exercised and performed by

Salary, etc.

the clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States, so far as the same may be applicable. The salary of the clerk shall be three thou-

sand five hundred dollars per annum, which sum shall be in full payment for all service rendered by such clerk; and all fees of any kind whatever, and all costs shall be by him turned into the United tieRse.striction on du- States Treasury. Said clerk shall not be appointed by the court or any judge thereof as a commissioner, master, receiver, or referee. The costs and fees in the said court shall be fixed and established

by said court in a table of fees to be adopted and approved by the

Proviso. Costs and fees.

Supreme Court of the United States within four months after the organization of said court: Provided, That the costs and fees so fixed shall not, with respect to any item, exceed the costs and fees charged in the Supreme Court of the United States ; and the same

shall be expended, accounted for, and paid over to the Treasury of

the United States.

Additional clerks, etc.

SEC. 192. In addition to the clerk, the court may appoint an

Ante, p. 107.

assistant clerk at a salary of two thousand dollars per annum, five

stenographic clerks at a salary of one thousand six hundred dollars

per annum each, one stenographic reporter at a salary of two thou-

sand five hundred dollars per annum, and a méssenger at a salary of

eight hundred and forty dollars per annum, all payable in equal

monthly installments, and all of whom, including the clerk, shall hold

office during the pleasure of and perform such duties as are assigned

etRc.eporter, duties, them by the court. Said reporter shall prepare and transmit to the Secretary of the Treasury once a week in time for publication in the

Treasury Decisions copies of all decisions rendered to that date by said court, and prepare and transmit, under the direction of said

toRbeepoprrtisntoefdd,eectics.ions court, at least once a year, reports of said decisions rendered to that date, constituting a volume, which shall be printed by the Treasury

Department in such numbers and distributed or sold in such manner

as the Secretary of the Treasury shall direct.

Rooms in public buildings.

SEC. 193. The marshal of said court for the District of Columbia

Ante, p. 106.

and the marshals of the several districts in which said Court of Cus-

toms Appeals may be held shall, under the direction of the Attorney

General, and with his approval, provide such rooms in the public

Proviso. Leases elsewhere.

buildings of the United States as may be necessary for said court: Provided, That in case proper rooms can not be provided in such buildings, then the said marshals, with the approval of the Attorney-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1145

General, may, from time to time, lease such rooms as may be necessary for said court. The bailiffs and messengers of said court shall Bailiffs, etc.

be allowed the same compensation for their respective services as are allowed for similar services in the existing district courts. In no case

shall said marshals secure ther rooms than those regularly occupied by existing district courts, or other public officers, except where such can not, by reason of actual occupancy or use, be occupied or used by said Court of Customs Appeals.
SEO. 194. The said Court of Customs Appeals shall be a court of record, with jurisdiction as in this chapter established and limited.

General powers. Ante, p. 105.

It shall prescribe the form and style of its seal, and the form of its

writs and other process and procedure, and exercise such powers con-

ferred by law as may be conformable and necessary to the exercise

of its jurisdiction.

It shall have power to

establish

all

rules

and

Rules dure.

and

proce-

regulations for the conduct of the business of the court, and as may

be needful for the uniformity of decisions within its jurisdiction as Extent of power to conferred by law. It shall have power to review any decision or review decisions, etc.

matter within its jurisdiction, and may affirm, modify, or reverse the same and remand the case with such orders as may seem to it proper in the premises, which shall be executed accordingly.

SEO. 195. The Court of Customs Appeals established by this chap- jurEixscdliucstiivone aopfpelfliantael ter shall exercise exclusive appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal, decisions by Board of as herein provided, final decisions by a Board of General Appraisers Gener Appraisers.

in all cases as to the construction of the law and the facts respecting the classification of merchandise and the rate of duty imposed thereon

under such classification, and the fees and charges connected there-

with, and all appealable questions as to the jurisdiction of said board,

and all appealable questions as to the laws and regulations governing the collection of the customs revenues; and the judgments and decrees of said Court of Customs Appeals shall be final in all such cases.

Judgments final.

SEO. 196. After the organization of said court, no appeal shall be proitvheedr ocfouaprpteslldaet-e taken or allowed from any Board of United States General Appraisers furAinstdei,ctpi.o1n0.6, to any other court, and no appellate jurisdiction shall thereafter be
exercised or allowed by any other courts in cases decided by said

Board of United States General Appraisers; but all appeals allowed

by law from such Board of General Appraisers shall be subject to review only in the Court of Customs Appeals hereby established, Proviso. according to the provisions of this chapter: Provided, That nothing Cases pending in

in this chapter shall be deemed to deprive the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, etc. , excepted.
United States of jurisdiction to hear and determine all customs cases
which have heretofore been certified to said court from the United

States circuit courts of appeals on applications for writs of certiorari or otherwise, nor to review by writ of certiorari any customs case

heretofore decided or now pending and hereafter decided by any cir-

cuit court of appeals, provided application for said writ be made
within six months after August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine: Review of decisions Provided further, That all customs cases decided by a circuit or in circuit, etc. , courts

district court of the United States or a court of a Territory of the prior toAugust6,1909. United States prior to said date above mentioned, and which have not been removed from said courts by appeal or writ of error, and all such cases theretofore submitted for dêcision in said courts and

remaining undecided may be reviewed on appeal at the instance of

either party by the United States Court of Customs Appeals, provided such appeal be taken within one year from the date of the

entry of the order, judgment, or decrees sought to be reviewed. SEO. 197. Immediately upon the organization of the Court of Cus- Transferof pending

toms Appeals, all cases within the jurisdiction of that court pending and not submitted for decision in any of the United States circuit courts of appeals, United States circuit, territorial or district courts, shall, with the record and samples therein, be certified by said courts to said Court of Customs Appeals for further proceedings in accord-

Ante,p. 102

1146

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Proviso. Completion of testi- ance herewith: Provided, That where orders for the taking of further

mony.

testimony before a referee have been made in any of such cases, the

taking of such testimony shall be completed before such certification.

Appeals from Board ofGeneral Appraisers.

SEO. 198. If the importer, owner, consignee, or agent of any im-

Ante, p. 107..

ported merchandise, or the collector or Secretary of the Treasury,

shall be dissatisfied with the decision of the Board of General Apprais-

ers as to the construction of the law and the facts respecting the classification of such merchandise and the rate of duty imposed thereon

Time limit.

under such classification, or with any other appealable decision of said board, they, or either of them, may, within sixty days next after the

Proviso. Alaska, etc.

entry of such decree or judgment, and not afterwards, apply to the Court of Customs Appeals for a review of the questions of law and fact involved in such decision : Provided, That in Alaska and in the insular and other outside possessions of the United States ninety days shall be

Application, etc. allowed for making such application to the Court of Customs Appeals. Such application shall be made by filing in the office of the clerk of said

court a concise statement of errors of law and fact complained of; and

a copy of such statement shall be served on the collector, or on the traRnescmoirtdt,edet. c., to be importer, owner, consignee, or agent, as the case may be. Thereupon
the court shall immediately order the Board of General Appraisers to transmit to said court the record and evidence taken by them, together with the certified statement of the facts involved in the case and their

decision thereon ; and all the evidence taken by and before said board

Finality ofdecision. shall be competent evidence before said Court of Customs Appeals. The decision of said Court of Customs Appeals shall be final, and such

Calendar. Hearings.

cause shall be remanded to said Board of General Appraisers for further proceedings to be taken in pursuance of such determination.
SEC. 199. Immediately upon receipt of any record transmitted to said court for determination the clerk thereof shall place the same upon the calendar for hearing and submission; and such calendar shall be

Proviso.

called and all cases thereupon submitted, except for good cause shown,

July and August. at least once every sixty days : Provided, That such calendar need not

be called during the months of July and August of any year.

Chapter 9. Commerce Court.

CHAPTER NINE. THE COMMERCE COURT.

Sec.
200. Commerce Court created ; judges of,
appointment and designation; expense allowance to judges. 201. Additional circuit judges; appointment and assignment. 202. Officers of the court; clerk, marshal, etc.; salaries, etc.
203. Court to be always open for business; sessions of, to beheld in Washington and elsewhere.
204. Marshals to provide rooms for hold-
ing court outside of Washington. 205. Assignment of judges to other duty;
vacancies, how filled.
206. Powers of court and judges; writs, process, procedure, etc.
207. Jurisdiction of the court. 208. Suits to enjoin, etc., orders of Inter-
state Commerce Commission to be
against United· States; restraining orders, when granted without notice.

Sec.
209: Jurisdiction of the court, how invoked; practice and procedure.
210. Final judgments and decrees reviewable in Supreme Court.
211. Suits to be against United States; when United States may intervene.
212. Attorney General to control all cases; Interstate Commerce Commission
may appear as of right; parties interested may intervene, etc. 213. Complainants may appear and be made parties to case. 214. Pending cases to be transferred to Commerce Court; exception; status of transferred cases.

To consist of five

circuitjudges.

SEO. 200. There shall be a court of the United States, to be known

Ante, p. 540.

as the Commerce Court, which shall be a court of record, and shall

Designation.

have a seal of such form and style as the court may prescribe. The said court shall be composed of five judges, to be from time to time designated and assigned thereto by the Chief Justice of the United

-SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1147

States, from among the circuit judges of the United States, for the period of five years, except that in the first instance the court shall

be composed of the five additional circuit judges referred to in the next succeeding section, who shall be designated by the President to

serve for one, two, three, four, and five years, respectively, in order that the period of designation of one of the said judges shall expire in each year thereafter. In case of the death, resignation, or termi- Filling vacancies.

nation of assignment of any judge so designated, the Chief Justice

shall designate a circuit judge to fill the vacancy so caused and to
serve during the unexpired period for which the original designation was made. After the year nineteen hundred and fourteen no circuit ,tiSounbss..equent designajudge shall be redesignated to serve in the Commerce Court until the

expiration of at least one year after the expiration of the period of his last previous designation. The judge first designated for the five- Presidingjudge.

year period shall be the presiding judge of said court, and thereafter the judge senior in designation shall be the presiding judge. The
associate judges shall have precedence and shall succeed to the place and powers of the presiding judge whenever he may be absent or
incapable of acting in the order of the date of their designations.

Precedence.

Four of said judges shall constitute a quorum, and at least a majority of the court shall concur in all decisions. Each of the judges during the period of his service in the Commerce Court shall, on account of the regular sessions of the court being held in the city of Washington,

Quorum. Additional pay.

receive in addition to his salary as circuit judge an expense allow-
ance at the rate of one thousand five hundred dollars per annum. SEO. 201. The five additional circuit judges authorized by the Act tiAonsaslicginrmceuinttjoufdagdedsi.-
to create a Commerce Court, and for other purposes, approved June Ante,p. 610.
eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, shall hold office during good behavior, and from time to time shall be designated and assigned by the Chief Justice of the United States for service in the district court

of any district, or the circuit court of appeals for any circuit, or in the . Commerce Court, and when so designated and assigned for service in

a district court or circuit court of appeals shall have the powers and
jurisdiction in this Act conferred upon a circuit judge in his circuit. SEC. 202. The court shall also have a clerk and a marshal, with the Clerk and marshal. Ante, p. 540.
same duties and powers, so far as they may be appropriate and are
not altered by rule of the court, as are now possessed by the clerk and marshal, respectively, of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The offices of the clerk and marshal of the court shall be in the city of toonf,fDic.eCs.in WashingWashington, in the District of Columbia. The judges of the court Deputies. shall appoint the clerk and marshal, and may also appoint, if they
find it necessary, a deputy clerk and deputy marshal; and such clerk,

marshal, deputy clerk, and deputy marshal, shall hold office during the pleasure of the court. The salary of the clerk shall be four thou- Salaries, etc.

sand dollars per annum; the salary of the marshal three thousand dollars per annum; the salary of the deputy clerk two thousand five

hundred dollars per annum; and the salary of the deputy marshal

two thousand five hundred dollars per annum. The said clerk and marshal may, with the approval of the court, employ all requisite assistance. The costs and fees in said court shall be established by Costs and fees.

the court in a table thereof, approved by the Supreme Court of the United States, within four months after the organization of the court ; but such costs and fees shall in no case exceed those charged in the

Supreme Court of the United States, and shall be accounted for and paid into the Treasury of the United States.

SEC. 203. The Commerce Court shall always be open for the trans- PAenrtmea,npe.n5t4l1y open. action of business. Its regular sessions shall be held in the city of inSgetsosni.ons in WashWashington, in the District of Columbia; but the powers of the court or of any judge thereof, or of the clerk, marshal, deputy clerk, or
deputy marshal, may be exercised anywhere in the United States ; Elsewhere.

1148

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

and for expedition of the work of the court and the avoidance of undue expense or inconvenience to suitors the court shall hold sessions in

different parts of the United States as may be found desirable. The

actual and necessary expenses of the judges, clerk, marshal, deputy
clerk, and deputy marshal of the court incurred for travel and attendWaEsxhpienngsteosn.outside of ance elsewhere than in the city of Washington shall be paid upon the
written and itemized certificate of such judge, clerk, marshal, deputy

clerk, or deputy marshal, by the marshal of the court, and shall be

allowed to him in the settlement of his accounts with the United

States.

Courtrooms outside ofWashington.

SEC. 204. The United States marshals of the several districts out-

Ante, p. 541.

side of the city of Washington in which the Commerce Court may hold

its sessions shall provide, under the direction and with the approval

of the Attorney General, such rooms in the public buildings of the

United States as may be necessary for the court's use ; but in case proper rooms can not be provided in such public buildings, said mar-

shals, with the approval of the Attorney General, may then lease

from time to time other necessary rooms for the court.

Assignment of judges to other duty.

SEO. 205. If, at any time, the business of the Commerce Court does

Ante, p. 541.

not require the services of all the judges, the Chief Justice of the

United States may, by writing, signed by him and filed in the Depart-

ment of Justice, terminate the assignment of any of the judges or temporarily assign_him for service in any district court or circuit

ciSesu. pplying vacan- Court of appeals. In case of illness or other disability of any judge assigned to the Commerce Court the Chief Justice of the United States
may assign any other circuit judge of the United States to act in his

place, and may terminate such assignment when the exigency therefor

shall cease; and any circuit judge so assigned to act in place of such

judge shall, during his assignment, exercise all the powers and per-

form all the functions of such judge.

Powers ofcourt and

judges.

SEO. 206. In all cases within its jurisdiction the Commerce Court,

Ante, p. 541.

and each of the judges assigned thereto, shall, respectively, have and

may exercise any and all of the powers of a district court of the United States and of the judges of said court, respectively, so far as the same

may be appropriate to the effective exercise of the jurisdiction hereby Issue of process. conferred. The Commerce Court may issue all writs and process

appropriate to the full exercise of its jurisdiction and powers and may

prescribe the form thereof. It may also, from time to time, establish such rules and regulations concerning pleading, practice, or procedure

in cases or matters within its jurisdiction as to the court shall seem

Procedure.

wise and proper. Its orders, writs, and process may run, be served,

esSse. rvice,etc.,of proc and be returnable anywhere in the United States; and the marshal

and deputy marshal of said court and also the United States marshals

and deputy marshals in the several districts of the United States

shall have like powers and be under like duties to act for and in behalf

Jurisdiction . Ante, p. 539:

of said court as pertain to United States marshals and deputy marshals generally when acting under like conditions concerning suits or matters in the district courts of the United States.
SEO. 207. The Commerce Court shall have the jurisdiction
possessed by circuit courts of the United States and the judges

thereof immediately prior to June eighteenth, nineteen hundred and

To enforce orders of ten, over all cases of the following kinds:

Interstate Commerce First. All cases for the enforcement, otherwise than by adjudica-

Commission.

tion and collection of a forfeiture or penalty or by infliction of

Except payment of

money.

criminal punishment, of any order of the Interstate Commerce

Commission other than for the payment of money.

To enjoin, etc., orders ofCommission.

Second. Cases brought to enjoin,, set aside, annul, or suspend in

To prevent unjust whole or in part any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.

discriminations by carriers.

Third. Such cases as by section three of the Act entitled " An

Vol. 32, p. 848. Act to further regulate commerce with foreign nations and among

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.`

1149

the States," approved February nineteenth, nineteen hundred and three, are authorized to be maintained in a circuit court of the United States.

Fourth. All such mandamus proceedings as under the provisions ,inMgsa,ncdararmiuerss.proceed-

of

section

twenty

or

section

twenty-three

of

the

Act

entitled

"An

"

Vol. 34, p. 593. Vol. 25, p. 862.

Act to regulate commerce," approved February fourth, eighteen

hundred and eighty-seven, as amended, are authorized to be maintained in a circuit court of the United States..
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as enlarging the jurisdiction now possessed by the circuit courts of the United States or the judges thereof, that is hereby transferred to and vested in the Commerce Court.

Limitation.

The jurisdiction ofthe Commerce Court over cases of the foregoingJurisdiction excluclasses shall be exclusive ; but this chapter shall not affect the juris- Cases not included. . diction possessed by any circuit or district court of the United States over cases or proceedings of a kind not within the above-enumerated , classes .

SEO. 208. Suits to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend any order orSdaelrts toofeCnojmomiins, seitco.n, of the Interstate . Commerce Commission shall be brought in the tStoabtees.against United Commerce Court against the United States. The pendency of such Ante, p. 542. suit shall not of itself stay or suspend the operation of the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission; but the Commerce Court, in

its discretion, may restrain or suspend, in whole or in part, the operation of the commission's order pending the final hearing and determi- Temporary suspennation of the suit. No order or injunction so restraining or sus- sion to prevent irre-

pending an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be parable damage. made by the Commerce Court otherwise than upon notice and after hearing, except that in cases where irreparable damage would other-

wise ensue to the petitioner, said court, or a judge thereof may, on hearing after not less than three days' notice to the Interstate Limit Commerce Commission and the Attorney General, allow a temporary ,

stay or suspension in whole or in part of the operation of the order

of the Interstate Commerce Commission for not more than sixty days from the date of the order ofsuch court or judge, pending application to the court for its order or injunction, in which case the said

order shall contain a specific finding, based upon evidence submitted to the judge making the order and identified by reference thereto, that such irreparable damage would result to the petitioner and

specifying the nature of the damage. The court may, at the time
of hearing such application, upon a like finding, continue the tempo- Continuance. rary stay or suspension in whole or in part until its decision upon the

application.
SEC. 209. The jurisdiction of the Commerce Court shall be invoked reFlielfi.ng petitions for by filing in the office of the clerk of the court a written petition setting Ante, p. 541. forth briefly and succinctly the facts constituting the petitioner's S·ervice of coples. cause of action, and specifying the relief sought. A copy of such
petition shall be forthwith served by the marshal or a deputy marshal
of the Commerce Court or by the proper United States marshal or deputy marshal upon every defendant therein named, and when the

United States is a party defendant, the service shall be made by filing .a copy of said petition in the office of the Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission and in the Department of Justice. Within thirty days after the petition is served, unless that time is extended

Answers

by order of the court or a judge thereof, an answer to the petition shall be filed in the clerk's office, and a copy thereof mailed to, the petitioner's attorney, which answer shall briefly and categorically respond to the allegations of the petition. No replication need be filed to the answer, and objections to the sufficiency of the petition . or answer as not setting forth a cause of action or defense must be

Noreplication, etc.

taken at the final hearing or by motion to dismiss the petition based

1150

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

on said grounds, which motion may be made at any me before

filReedl.lef if no answer answer is filed. In case no answer shall be filed as provided herein
Taking evidence. the petitioner may apply to the court on notice for such relief as may be proper upon the facts alleged in the petition. The court may, by

rule, prescribe the method of taking evidence in cases pending in said court; and may prescribe that the evidence be taken before a single

judge of the court, with power to rule upon the admission of evidence.

Except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter, or by rule of

the court, the practice and procedure in the Commerce Court shall conform as nearly as may be to that in like cases in a district court of the United States.

CoAuprpte. als to Supreme SEC. 210. A final judgment or decree of the Commerce Court may

Ante, p. 642.

be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United States if appeal to

the Supreme Court be taken by an aggrieved party within sixty days after the entry of said final judgment or decree. Such appeal may be taken in like manner as appeals from a district court of the United

States to the Supreme Court, and the Commerce Court may direct the original record to be transmitted on appeal instead of a transcript

thereof. The Supreme Court may affirm, reverse, or modify the final

judgment or decree of the Commerce Court as the case may require.

unNleossstSauyporfejmuedgCmoeunrtt Appeal to the Supreme Court, however, shall in no case supersede or

BO direct.

stay the judgment or decree of the Commerce Court appealed from,

unless the Supreme Court or a justice thereof shall so direct ; and

appellant shall give bond in such form and of such amount as the

Supreme Court, or the justice of that court allowing the stay, may
tioAnpsp.eals on injunc- require. An appeal may also be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States from an interlocutory order or decree of the Commerce

Court granting or continuing an injunction restraining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, provided

such appeal be taken within thirty days from the entry of such order Priority of cases. or decree. Appeals to the Supreme Court under this section shall

have priority in hearing and determination over all other causes except
criminal causes in that court.
United States substituted for Commis- SEC. 211. All cases and proceedings in the Commerce Court which sion in all cases. but for this chapter would be brought by or against the Interstate
Ante, p. 543. Commerce Commission, shall be brought by or against the United

States, and the United States may intervene in any case or proceeding

in the Commerce Court whenever, though it has not been made a

party, public interests are involved.

Attorney Generalto control all cases.

SEC. 212. The Attorney General shall have charge and control of the

Ante, p. 513.

interests of the Government in all cases and proceedings in the Com-

merce Court, and in the Supreme Court of the United States upon

etcS.p,etcoialssista.ttorneys, appeal from the Commerce Court. If in his opinion the public interest requires it, he may retain and employ in the name of the

United States, within the appropriations from time to time made by the Congress for such purposes, such special attorneys and counselors

Compensation.

at law as he may think necessary to assist in the discharge of any of the duties incumbent upon him and his subordinate attorneys ; and

the Attorney- General shall stipulate with such special attorneys and

counsel the amount of their compensation, which shall not be in

Provisos.

excess of the sums appropriated therefor by Congress for such pur-

Appearance ofcom- poses, and shall have supervision of their action : Provided, That the

miintsesrieosnt, etpca.rties in Interstate Commerce Commission and any party or parties in interest to the proceeding before the commission, in which an order or requirement is made, may appear as parties thereto, of their own motion

and as of right, and be represented by their counsel, in any suit wherein is involved the validity of such order or requirement or any

part thereof, and the interest of such party; and the court wherein is -pending such suit may make all such rules and orders as to such

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1151

appearances and representations, the number of counsel, and all

matters of procedure, and otherwise, as to subserve the ends of Parties interested
justice and speed the determination of such suits: Provided further, esitles inte
That communities, associations, corporations, firms, and individuals

who are interested in the controversy or question before the' Interstate Commerce Commission, or in any suit which may be brought by any one under the provisions of this chapter, or the Acts of which

it is amendatory or which are amendatory of it, relating to action

of the Interstate Commerce Commission, may intervene in said suit or proceedings at any time after the institution thereof; and the veRnoirgsh. ts of interAttorney General shall not dispose of or discontinue said suit or proceeding over the objection of such party or intervenor aforesaid,

but said intervenor or intervenors may prosecute, defend , or continue said suit or proceeding unaffected by the action or non-action of the

Attorney General therein. SEO. 213. Complainants before the Interstate Commerce Commis- Right boef mcoamdpelapianr--
sion interested in a case shall have the right to appear and be made tieAsn,teet,c.p. 644. parties to the case and be represented before the courts by counsel,
under such regulations as are now permitted in similar circum-
stances under the rules and practice of equity courts of the United States.

SEC. 214. Until the opening of the Commerce Court, all cases and Disposal of cases prior to opening of
proceedings of which from that time the Commerce Court is hereby couArntl.e, p. 544. given exclusive jurisdiction may be brought in the same courts and
conducted in like manner and with like effect as is now provided by

law; and if any such case or proceeding shall have gone to final

judgment or decree before the opening of the Commerce Court,
appeal may be taken from such final judgment or decree in like manner and with like effect as is now provided by law. Any such case ferPreendd.ingcasestransor proceeding within the jurisdiction of the Commerce Court which

may have been begun in any other court as hereby allowed, before the said date, shall be forthwith transferred to the Commerce Court, if it has not yet proceeded to final judgment or decree in such other court unless it has been finally submitted for the decision of such court, in which case the cause shall proceed in such court to final

Exception.

judgment or decree and further proceeding thereafter, and appeal may be taken direct to the Supreme Court; and if remanded, such

cause may be sent back to the court from which the appeal was
taken or to the Commerce Court for further proceeding as the Supreme Court shall direct. All previous proceedings in such Status oftransferred cases. transferred case shall stand and operate notwithstanding the trans-

fer, subject to the same control over them by the Commerce Court

and to the same right of subsequent action in the case or proceeding as if the transferred case or proceeding had been originally begun in the Commerce Court. The clerk of the court from which any Original papers, case or proceeding is so transferred to the Commerce Court shall etc.,tobetransferred.

transmit to and file in the Commerce Court the originals of all papers

filed in such case or proceeding and a certified transcript of all record entries in the case or proceeding up to the time of transfer.

.1152

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Chapter 10.

CHAPTER TEN.

The Supreme Court.

THE SUPREME COURT.

Sec.
215. Number of justices. 216. Precedents of the associate justices. 217. Vacancy in the office of Chief Jus-
tice . 218. Salaries of justices.
219. Clerk, marshal, and reportér. 220. The clerk to give bond. 221. Deputies of the clerk. 222. Records of the old court of appeals. 223. Tables of fees.
224. Marshal of the Supreme Court. 225. Duties of the reporter. 226. Reporter's salary and allowances. 227. Distribution of reports and digests. 228. Additional reports and digests; lim-
itation upon cost ; estimates to be submitted to Congress annually.
229. Distribution of Federal Reporter, etc., and Digests.
230. Terms.
231. Adjournment for want of a quorum. 232. Certain orders made by less than
quorum. 233. Original disposition. 234. Writs of prohibition and mandamus. 235. Issues of fact.
236. Appellate jurisdiction. 237. Writs of error from judgments and
decrees of State courts.
238. Appeals and writs of error from United States district courts.
239. Circuit court of appeals may certify
questions to Supreme Court for instructions.

Sec.
240. Certiorari to circuit court ofappeals.
241. Appeals and writs of error in other cases .
242. Appeals from Court of Claims. 243. Time and manner of appeals from
the Court of Claims.
244. Writs of error and appeals from supreme court of and United States district court for Porto Rico.
245. Writs of error and appeals from the Supreme Courts of Arizona and Mew Mexico.
246. Writs of error and appeals from the Supreme Court of Hawaii.
247. Appeals and writs of error from the district court for Alaska direct to
Supreme Court in certain cases.
248. Appeals and writs of error from the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands.
249. Appeals and writs of error when a Territory becomes a State.
250. Appeals and writs of error from the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
251. Certiorari to Court of Appeals, District of Columbia.
252. Appellate jurisdiction under the bankruptcy act.
253. Precedence of writs of error to State courts .
254. Cost of printing records. 255. Women may be admitted to practice.

Composition. R. S., sec. 673, p.125.

SEC. 215. The Supreme Court of the United States shall consist of

Quorum.

a Chief Justice of the United States and eight associate justices, any

six of whom shall constitute a quorum.

Precedence.

SEO. 216. The associate justices shall have precedence according to

R. S. , sec. 674, p. 125. the dates of their commissions, or, when the commissions of two or

more of them bear the same date, according to their ages.

Vacancy in office of Chief Justice .

SEC. 217. In case of a vacancy in the office of Chief Justice, or of

R. S. , sec. 675, p. 125. his inability to perform the duties and powers of his office, they shall

devolve upon the associate justice who is first in precedence, until

such disability is removed, or another Chief Justice is appointed and

Salaries. Vol. 32, p. 825.

duly qualified. This provisión shall apply to every associate justice who succeeds to the office of Chief Justice.
SEO. 218. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States shall receive the sum of fifteen thousand dollars a year, and

the justices thereof shall receive the sum of fourteen thousand five

hundred dollars a year each, to be paid monthly.

Officers. R. S., sec. 677, p. 125.

SEO. 219. The Supreme Court shall have power to appoint a clerk

and a marshal for said court, and a reporter of its decisions..

Clerk . Bond.

SEC. 220. The clerk of the Supreme Court shall, before he enters

Vol. 18, p. 333. upon the execution of his office, give bond, with sufficient sureties, to

be approved bythe court, to the United States, in the sum of not less

than five thousand and not more than twenty thousand dollars, to

be determined and regulated by the Attorney General, faithfully to

New bond.

discharge the duties of his office, and seasonably to record the decrees, judgments, and determinations of the court. The Supreme Court

may, at any time, upon the motion of the Attorney General, to be made upon thirty days' notice, require a new bond, or a bond for an

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1153

increased amount within the limits above prescribed; and the failure of the clerk to execute the same shall vacate his office. All bonds

given by the clerk shall, after approval, be recorded in his office, and copies thereof from the records, certified by the clerk under seal

of the court. shall be competent evidence in any court. The original
bonds shall be filed in the Department of Justice. SEC. 221. One or more deputies of the clerk of the Supreme Court DAepppouitnytcmleenrkts. and
may be appointed by the court on the application of the clerk, and teRn.urSe.., sec. 678, p. 125. may be removed at the pleasure of the court. In case of the death

of the clerk, his deputy or deputies shall, unless removed, continue

in office and perform the duties of the clerk in his name until a clerk is appointed and qualified ; and for the defaults or misfeasances in

office of any such deputy, whether in the lifetime of the clerk or after his death, the clerk, and his estate, and the sureties on his official

bond shall be liable; and his executor or administrator shall have

such remedy for any such defaults or misfeasances committed after

his death as the clerk would be entitled to if the same had occurred

in his lifetime.

Records of old court

SEO. 222. The records and proceedings of the court of appeals, ofappeals.

appointed previous to the adoption of the present Constitution, shall R. S.,sec. 679, p: 125.

be kept in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court, who shall give copies thereof to any person requiring and paying for them, in the manner provided by law for giving copies of the records and proceedings of the Supreme Court ; and such copies shall have like faith and

credit with all other proceedings of said court.
SEO. 223. The Supreme Court is authorized and empowered to prepare the tables of fees to be charged by the clerk thereof.
SEO. 224. The marshal is entitled to receive a salary at the rate of
four thousand five hundred dollars a year. He shall attend the court at its sessions ; shall serve and execute all process and orders issuing from it, or made by the Chief Justice or an associate justice in pursuance of law; and shall take charge of all property of the United States used by the court or its members. With the approval of the Chief Justice he may appoint assistants and messengers to attend the court, with the compensation allowed to officers of the House of Representatives of similar grade.
SEC. 225. The reporter shall cause the décisions of the Supreme Court to be printed and published within eight months after they are made ; and within the same time he shall deliver three hundred

Fees. Marshal. salary and duties. R. S., sec. 630, p. 125.
Assistants, etc.
DRuetpioerst.er. R. S., sec. 681, p. 12.5

copies of the volumes of said reports to the Attorney General. The

reporter shall, in any year when he is so directed by the court, cause
to be printed and published a second volume of said decisions, of
which he shall deliver a like number of copies in like manner and time.
Salary. SEO. 226. The reporter shall be entitled to receive from the Treasury Vol.2, p. 251. an annual salary of four thousand five hundred dollars when his
report of said decisions constitutes one volume, and an additional sum of one thousand two hundred dollars when, by direction of the court, he causes to be printed and published in any year a second Additional. volume; and said reporter shall be annually entitled to clerk hire in the sum of one thousand two hundred dollars, and to office rent,
stationery, and contingent expenses in the sum of six hundred dollars: Provided, That the volumes of the decisions of the court hereto- PPrroivciesoa. volume for fore published shall be furnished by the reporter to the public at a reports of decisions. sum not exceeding two dollars per volume, and those hereafter published at a sum not exceeding one dollar and seventy-five cents
per volume; and the number of volumes now required to be delivered to the Attorney General shall be furnished by the reporter without
any charge therefor. Said salary and compensation, respectively, Conditions. shall be paid only when he causes such decisions to be printed,

1154

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

published , and delivered within the time and in the manner prescribed

by law, and upon the condition that the volumes of said reports shall

be sold by him to the public for a price not exceeding one dollar and

seventy-five cents a volume.

Supreme Court reports.

SEO. 227. The Attorney General shall distribute copies of the

toDrinsetyriGbeunteiroanl.by At Supreme Court reports, as follows: To the President, the justices of

R. S., sec. 683, p. 126. the Supreme Court, the judges of the Commerce Court, the judges of

the Court of Customs Appeals, the judges of the circuit courts of

appeals, the judges of the district courts, the judges of the Court of

Claims, the judges of the Court of Appeals and of the Supreme Court

of the District of Columbia, the judges of the several Territorial

courts, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the

Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the

Interior, the Postmaster General, the Attorney General, the Secretary

of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, the Solicitor

General, the Assistant to the Attorney General, each Assistant

Attorney General, each United States district attorney, each Assistant

Secretary of each Executive Department, the Assistant Postmasters

General, the Secretary of the Senate for the use of the Senate, the

Clerk of the House of Representatives for the use of the House of

Representatives, the Governors of the Territories, the Solicitor for

the Department of State, the Treasurer of the United States, the

Solicitor of the Treasury, the Register of the Treasury, the Comp-

troller of the Treasury, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Com-

missioner of Internal Revenue, the Director of the Mint, each of the

six Auditors in the Treasury Department, the Judge Advocate

General, War Department, the Paymaster General, War Department,

the Judge Advocate General, Navy Department, the Commissioner of

Indian Affairs, the Commissioner of Pensions, the Commissioner of

the General Land Office, the Commissioner of Patents, the Commis-

sioner of Education, the Commissioner of Labor, the Commissioner of

Navigation, the Commissioner of Corporations, the Commissioner

General of Immigration, the Chief of the Bureau of Manufactures, the

Director of the Geological Survey, the Director of the Census, the

Forester, Department of Agriculture, the Purchasing Agent, Post

Office Department, the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Clerk

of the Supreme Court of the United States, the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States, the Attorney for the District of Columbia,

the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Military Academy at West Point, and the heads of such other executive offices as may be pro-

vided by law, of equal grade with any of said offices, each one copy; to the Law Library of the Supreme Court, -twenty-five copies ; to the Law Library of the Department of the Interior, two copies; to the Law Library of the Department of Justice, two copies; to the Secretary of the Senate for the use of the committees of the Senate, twenty-five copies ; to the Clerk of the House of Representatives for the use of the committees of the House, thirty copies ; to the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States, as custodian of the public property used by the court, for the use of the justices thereof in the
conference room, robing room, and court room, three copies; to the Secretary of War for the use of the proper courts and officers of the Philippine Islands and for the headquarters of military departments . in the United States, twelve copies; and to each of the places where district courts of the United States are now holden, including Hawaii, reApodrdtistiaonndaldigseesttss. of and Porto Rico, one copy. He shall also distribute one complete set of said reports, and one set of the digests thereof, to such executive officers as are entitled to receive said reports under this section and have not already received them, to each United States judge and to each United States district attorney who bus not received a set, to each of the places where district courts are now held to which said

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

.1155

reports have not been distributed, and to each of the places at which a district court may hereafter he held, the edition of said reports and digests to be selected by the judge or officer receiving them. No RVeoslt.r8i2c,tipo.n6.30. distribution of reports and digests under this section shall be made to any place where the court is held in a building not owned by the United States, unless there be at such place a United States officer to whose responsible custody they can be committed. The clerks of said courts (except the Supreme Court) shall in all cases keep said reports and digest for the use of the courts and of the officers thereof. Such reports and digest shall remain the property of the United, States, and shall be preserved by the officers above named and by them turned over to their successors in office.
SEC. 228. The publishers of the decisions of the Supreme Court shall maAdxdiimtiuomnaplricceo. ples deliver to the Attorney General, in addition to the three hundred Vol. 32, p. 631.
copies delivered by the Reporter, such number of copies of each report heretofore published, as the Attorney General may require, for which he shall pay not more than two dollars per volume, and such number

of copies of each report hereafter published as he may require, for
which he shall pay not more than one dollar and seventy-five cents per volume. The Attorney General shall include in his annual esti- reEposrttismaantedfdoirgecsotsst. of mates submitted to Congress, an estimate for the current volumes of

such reports, and also for the additional sets of reports and digests required for distribution under the section last preceding.
SEC. 229. The Attorney General is authorized to procure complete etcF.e,daenrdaldigResetpso.rter, sets of the Federal Reporter or, in his discretion, other publication trPibuurtcihoans. e and discontaining the decisions of the circuit courts of appeals, circuit courts, and district courts, and digests thereof, and also future volumes of
the same as issued, and distribute a copy of each such reports and
digests to each place where a circuit Court of appeals, or a district court, is now or may hereafter regularly be held, and to the Supreme Court of the United States, the Court of Claims, the court of Customs

Appeals, the Commerce Court, the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the Attorney General, the Solicitor General, the Solicitor of the Treasury, the Assistant Attorney General for the Department of the Interior, the Commissioner of Patents, and the Interstate Commerce Commission ; and to the Secretary of the Senate, for the use of the Senate, and to the Clerk of the House of .

Representatives, for the use of the House of Representatives, not more than three sets each. Whenever any such court room, office, or officer shall have a partial or complete set of any such reports, or digests, already purchased or owned by the United States, the Attorney General shall distribute to such court room, office, or officer, only sufficient volumes to make a complete set thereof. No distribution

Completion ofsets. Condition.

of reports or digests under this section shall be made to any place where the court is held in a building not owned by the United States, unless there be at such place a United States officer to whose respon-

sible custody they can be committed. The clerks of the courts (except the Supreme Court) to which the reports and digests are distributed under this section, shall keep such reports and digests for the use of the courts and the officers thereof. All reports and

Preservation.

digests distributed under the provisions of this section shall be and remain the property of the United States and, before distribution, shall be plainly marked on their covers with the words "The Property of the United States," and shall be transmitted by the officers receiving them to their successors in office. Not to exceed two dollars per volume shall be paid for the back and current volumes

Price for volumes.

of the Federal Reporter or other publication purchased under the

provisions of this section, and not to exceed five dollars per volume
for the digest, the said money to be disbursed under the direction
of the Attorney General; and the Attorney General shall include anEdstciumraretnetfnourmbbearcs.k in his annual estimates submitted to Congress, an estimate for the

1156

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . CH. 231. 1911.

back and current volumes of such reports and digests, the distribu-

Terms.

tion of which is provided for in this section.

R. S., sec. 634, p. 126. SEC. 230. The Supreme Court shall hold at the seat of govern-

ment, one term annually, commencing on the second Monday in

October, and such adjourned or special terms as it may find necessary

for the dispatch of business.

Adjournment for lack of quorum.

SEO. 231. If, at any session of the Supreme Court, a quorum does

R. S. , sec. 635, p. 126. not attend on the day appointed for holding it, the justices who do

attend may adjourn the court from day to day for twenty days after said appointed time, unless there be sooner a quorum. If a quorum

does not attend within said twenty days, the business of the court shall be continued over till the next appointed session; and if, during a term, after a quorum has assembled, less than that number attend .

on any day, the justices attending may adjourn the court from day

Orders, etc., by less to day until there is a quorum, or may adjourn without day.

than a quorum.

SEC. 232. The justices attending at any term, when less than a

R. S., sec. 686, p. 127. quorum is present, may, within the twenty days mentioned in the

preceding section, make all necessary orders touching any suit,

proceeding, or process, depending in or returned to the court, preparatory to the hearing, trial, or decision thereof. tiOonri. ginal jurisdic- SEC. 233. The Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of R. S.,sec. 687, p. 127. all controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party, except · between a State and its citizens, or between a State and citizens of

other States, or aliens, in which latter cases it shall have original, baSsusiatdsorsa,geaticn.st am- but not exclusive, jurisdiction. And it shall have exclusively all
such jurisdiction of suits or proceedings against ambassadors or other public ministers, or their domestics or domestic servants, as a

court of law can have consistently with the law of nations ; and

original, but not. exclusive, jurisdiction, of all suits brought by

ambassadors, or other public ministers, or in which a consul or vice

consul is a party.

Writs ofprohibition and mandamus.

SEC. 234. The Supreme Court shall have power to issue writs of

R.S , sec. 638, p. 127. prohibition to the district courts, when proceeding as courts of

admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; and writs of mandamus, in

cases warranted by the principles and usages of law, to any courts

appointed under the authority of the United States, or to persons holding office under the authority of the United States, where a

State, or an ambassador, or other public minister, or a consul, or

vice consul is a party.
Issues of fact. R. 8., sec. 659, p. 128. SEC. 235. The trial of issues of fact in the Supreme Court, in all

actions at law against citizens of the United States, shall be by jury. tiAonp.pellate jurisdic- SEC. 236. The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction in

R. S., sec. 690, p. 128. the cases hereinafter specially provided for.

Writs of error from State courts.

SEC. 237. A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest

R. 8. , sec. 709, p. 133. Court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is

drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an author-

ity exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against their validity ; or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute

of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United

States, and the decision is in favor of their validity; or where any

title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the Constitution,

or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised

under, the United States, and the decision is against the title, right,

privilege, or immunity especially set up or claimed, by either party,

under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority,

may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court Effect of writs. upon a writ of error. The writ shall have the same effect as if the

Decision.

judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a court of the United States. The Supreme Court may reverse,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1157

modify, or affirm the judgment or decree of such State court, and may, at their discretion, award execution or remand the same to the

court from which it was removed by the writ. SEO. 238. Appeals and writs of error may be taken from the district ofAeprpreoarlsdiarencdt wfrriotms
courts, including the United States district court for Hawaii, direct disVtorlic. t26c,opur.t8s2. 7; Vol. to the Supreme Court in the following cases: In any case in which 29, p. 492; Vol. 35, p. the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, in which case the question of 839.

jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision ; from the final sentences and decrees in

prize causes ; in any case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States ; in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the validity or

construction of any treaty made under its authority is drawn in
question; and in any case in which the constitution or law of a State : is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United

States.

Cases submitted for

SEO. 239. In any case within its appellate jurisdiction, as defined instructions from cir

in

section

one

hundred

and

twenty-eight,

the

circuit

court

of

appeals

appeals. cuitcourtof app

at any time may certify to the Supreme Court of the United States Ante,p. 133.

any questions or propositions of law concerning which it desires the

instruction of that court for its proper decision ; and thereupon the Supreme Court may either give its instruction on the questions and

propositions certified to it, which shall be binding upon the circuit court of appeals in such case, or it may require that the whole record

and cause be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall decide the whole matter in controversy in the same manner as if it

had been brought there for review by writ of error or appeal.

Certiorari to circuit

SEO. 240. In any case, civil or criminal, in which the judgment or court of4peals

decree of the circuit court of appeals is made final by the provisions of Vol. 26, p. 828.

this Title, it shall be competent for the Supreme Court to require,

by certiorari or otherwise, upon the petition of any party thereto,

any such case to be certified to the Supreme Court for its review

and determination, with the same power and authority in the case as

if it had been carried by appeal or writ of error to the Supreme Court. Writs of error and SEO. 241. In any case in which the judgment or decree of the cir- appeals from circuit
cuit court of appeals is not made final by the provisions of this Title, coVuorlt.o2f6,app. e8a2l8s.. there shall be of right an appeal or writ of error to the Supreme

Court of the United States where the matter in controversy shall

exceed one thousand dollars, besides costs. Appeals from Court
SEC. 242. An appeal to the Supreme Court shall be allowed on of claims.

behalf of the United States, from all judgments of the Court of R. S.,sec.707, p. 132.

Claims adverse to the United States, and on behalf of the plaintiff

in any case where the amount in controversy exceeds three thousand

dollars, or where his claim is forfeited to the United States by the judgment of said court as provided in section one hundred and Ante, p. 1141.

seventy-two.

SEC. 243. All appeals from the Court of Claims shall be taken ofTaipmpeealasnfdrommaCnonuerrt

within ninety days after the judgment is rendered, and shall be ofRC.lSa.i, msse:c. 703, p. 132.

allowed under such regulations as the Supreme Court may direct.

Writs of error and

SEO. 244. Writs of error and appeals from the final judgments and appeals from Porto

decrees of the supreme court of, and the United States district court RiVcoaln. c3o1u, rpt.s85. for, Porto Rico, may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme Court

of the United States, in any case wherein is involved the validity of any copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a

treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States,

or wherein the Constitution of the United States, or a treaty thereof,

or an Act of Congress is brought in question and the right claimed thereunder is denied, without regard tothe sum or value of the mat-

ter in dispute ; and in all other cases in which the sum or value of the

matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, to be ascertained by the oath of either party or of other competent witnesses, exceeds the sum or

89740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11--75

1158

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

value of five thousand dollars. Such writs of error and appeals shall be taken within the same time, in the same manner, and under

the same regulations as writs of error and appeals are taken to the
Supreme Court of the United States from the district courts. Writs of error and appeals from Arizona SEO. 245. Writs of error and appeals from the final judgments and parnedmeNecowurMtse.xico su- decrees of the supreme courts of the Territories of Arizona and New Vol. 23, p. 443. Mexico may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the
United States in any case wherein is involved the validity of any
copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States, without

regard to the sum or value of the matter in dispute ; and in all other cases in which the sum or value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of

costs, to be ascertained by the oath of either party or of other com-

petent witnesses, exceeds the sum or value of five thousand dollars.

Writs of error and

appeals from Hawall SEO. 246. Writs of error and appeals fromthe final judgments and

supreme court. Vol. 31, p. 158.

decrees of the supreme court of the Territory of Hawaii may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the United States, within the

Ante, p. 1166.

same time, in the same manner, under the same regulations, and in the same classes of cases, in which writs of error and appeals from the final judgments and decrees of the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had, may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the United States under the provisions of section two hundred and thirty-seven ; and also in all cases wherein the amount involved , exclusive of costs, to be ascertained by the oath of

either party or of other competent witnesses, exceeds the sum or
value of five thousand dollars. Appeals and writs of error, direct from SEC. 247. Appeals and writs of error.may be taken and prosecuted
AlVaoslk.a3d1i,sptr.i4c1t4c. ourt. from final judgments and decrees of the district court for the district of Alaska or for any division thereof, direct to the Supreme Court of

the United States, in the following cases: In prize cases; and in all cases which involve the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, or in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States or the validity or construction of any treaty

made under its authority is drawn in question, or in which the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States. Such writs of error and appeal

shall be taken within the same time, in the same manner, and under

the same regulations as writs of error and appeals are taken from the

district courts to the Supreme Court.

Review, etc., decisionsofsupreme court

SEO. 248. The Supreme Court of the United States shall have

ofVPohli.l3i2p,ppin. e69I3s.lands. jurisdiction to review, revise, reverse, modify, or affirm the final judgments and decrees of the supreme court of the Philippine Islands

in all actions, cases, causes, and proceedings now pending therein or

hereafter determined thereby, in which the Constitution, or any

statute, treaty, title, right, or privilege of the United States is involved,
veArsmyo.unt in contro- or in causes in which the value in controversy exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars , or in which the title or possession of real estate
exceeding in value the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, to be

ascertained by the oath of either party or of other competent witnesses, is involved or brought in question; and such final judgments or decrees may and can be reviewed , revised, reversed, modified, or

affirmed by said Supreme Court on appeal or writ of error by the
party aggrieved, within the same time, in the same manner, under
the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as far as applicable,
as the final judgments and decrees of the district courts of the United States. Writs of error and appeals when Terri- SEO. 249. In all cases where the judgment or decree of any court tory becomes a State. of a Territory might be reviewed by the Supreme Court on writ of
error or appeal, such writ of error or appeal may be taken, within the

time and in the manner provided by law, notwithstanding such

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1159

Territory has, after such judgment or decree, been admitted as a State; and the Supreme Court shall direct the mandate to such court
as the nature of the writ of error or appeal requires. SEO. 250. Any final judgment or decree of the court of appeals of DiCsotruirctofofColaupmpbeiaals.
the District of Columbia may be reexamined and affirmed, reversed, CVaosle.s2r7,epvi. e43w6a.ble. or modified by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ

of error or appeal, in the following cases:

Jurisdiction of trial

First. In cases in which the jurisdiction of the trial court is in court in issue.

issue ; but when any such case is not otherwise reviewable in said

Supreme Court, then the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certi-

fied to said Supreme Court for decision.

Prize cases.

Second. In prize cases.

Third. In cases involving the construction or application of the CoQnusetsittiuotniosni,nlvaowlsv,iongr

Constitution of the United States, or the constitutionality of any law treaty.

of the United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made under its authority.

Fourth. In cases in which the constitution, or any law of a State, is vesntiantgeCloenusrteitcuotnitorna.claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United

States.

Question of Federal

Fifth. In cases in which the validity of any authority exercised authority.

under the United States, or the existence or scope of any power or

duty of an officer of the United States is drawn in question . Sixth. In cases in which the construction of any law of the United erCaolnlsatrwu. ctionof Fed-

States is drawn in question by the defendant.

Except as provided in the next succeeding section, the judgments ofCaapspeesalfisn. al in court. and decrees of said court of appeals shall be final in all cases arising

under the patent laws, the copyright laws, the revenue laws, the

criminal laws, and in admiralty cases ; and, except as provided in the

next succeeding section, the judgments and decrees of said court of

appeals shall be final in all cases not reviewable as hereinbefore-

provided. Manner of taking
Writs of error and appeals shall be taken within the same time, in appeals, etc.
the same manner, and under the same regulations as writs of error

and appeals are taken fromthe circuit courts of appeals to the Supreme

Court of the United States.

SEO. 251.

In

any

case

in

which

the

judgment

or

decree

of

said

court

Certiorari of appeals,

to court of cases

of appeals is made final by the section last preceding, it shall be com- madefinal,forreview. petent for the Supreme Court of the United States to require, by certiorari or otherwise, any such case to be certified to it for its review and determination, with the same power and authority in the case as if it had been carried by writ of error or appeal to said Supreme Court. It shall also be competent for said court of appeals, in any Instructions. case in which its judgment or decree is made final under the section last preceding, at any time to certify to the Supreme Court of the United States any questions or propositions of law concerning which it desires the instruction of that court for their proper decision ; and

thereupon the Supreme Court may either give its instruction on the questions and propositions certified to it, which shall be binding upon said court of appeals in such case, or it may require that the whole
record and cause be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall decide the whole matter in controversy in the same manner as

if it had been brought there for review by writ of error or appeal .

Claims in bank-

SEC. 252. The Supreme Court of the United States is hereby ruptcy.

invested with appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in Vol . 30, p. 553.

bankruptcy proceedings, from the courts of bankruptcy, from which

it has appellate jurisdiction in other cases ; and shall exercise a like

jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy not within any organized

circuit of the United States and from the supreme court of the Dis-

trict of Columbia.

1160

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Appeals from court of appeals.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States

from any final decision of a court of appeals allowing or rejecting

a claim under the laws relating to bankruptcy, under such rules and

within such time as may be prescribed by said Supreme Court, in

the following cases and no other: Amount in contro-

versy, etc.

First. Where the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of two

thousand dollars, and the question involved is one which might

have been taken on appeal or writ of error from the highest court of

a State to the Supreme Court of the United States; or

tiAofnfeoctfingbanckonrsutprtuccy- Second. Where some justice of the Supreme Court shall certify

laws.

that in his opinion the determination of the question involved in the

allowance or rejection of such claim is essential to a uniform con-

struction of the laws relating to bankruptcy throughout the United

States.

Cases certified from

other courts.

Controversies may be certified to the Supreme Court of the United

States from other courts of the United States, and the former court

may exercise jurisdiction thereof, and may issue writs of certiorari pursuant to the provisions of the United States laws now in force

or such as may be hereafter enacted .

Precedence of criminal casesfrom a State

SEC. 253. Cases on writ of error to revise the judgment of a State

court.

court in any criminal case shall have precedence on the docket of

R. S., sec. 710, p. 134. the Supreme Court, of all cases to which the Government of the

United States is not a party, excepting only such cases as the court,

Printing cost. Vol. 19, p. 344.

in its discretion, may decide to be of public importance. SEC. 254. There shall be taxed against the losing party in each and
every cause pending in the Supreme Court the cost of printing the

record in such case, except when the judgment is against the United

States.

Admission ofwomen

to practice.

SEO. 255. Any woman who shall have been a member of the bar

Vol. 20, p. 292. of the highest court of any State or Territory, or of the court of

appeals of the District of Columbia, for the space of three years, and

shall have maintained a good standing before such court, and who shall

be a person of good moral character, shall, on motion, and the production of such record, be admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States.

Chapter 11.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

Provisions common

to more than one

court.

Seo.

PROVISIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN ONE COURT. Sec.

256. Cases in which jurisdiction of United 267. When suits in.equity may be main-

States courts shall be exclusive of

tained .

State courts.

268. Power to administer oaths and pun-

257. Oath of United States judges.

ish contempts.

258. Judges prohibited from practicing law.
259. Traveling expenses, etc., of circuit
justices and circuit and district judges. 260. Salary of judges after resignation. 261. Writs of ne exeat. 262. Power to issue writs.

269. New trials. 270. Power to hold to security for the
peace and good behavior. 271. Power to enforce awards of foreign
consuls, etc., in certain cases. 272. Parties may manage their causes per-
sonally or by counsel. 273. Certain officers forbidden to act as

263. Temporary restraining orders. 264. Injunctions; in what cases judge may
grant. 265. Injunctions to stay proceedings in
State courts.

attorneys .
274. Penalty for violating preceding section .

266. Injunctions based upon alleged unconstitutionality of State statutes; when and by whom may be

granted.

Exclusive jurisdiction of United States

SEO. 256. The jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States

courts.

in the cases and proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall be exclusive

R. 8. , sec. 711, p. 134 of the courts of the several States :

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1161

First. Of all crimes and offenses cognizable under the authority of erCarlilmaews. under Fed-the United States.

Second . Of all suits for-penalties and forfeitures incurred under the altFioersf.eitures andpen-

laws of the United States.

Third. Of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;

Admiralty and mar altya

saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of a common-law remedy,

where the common law is competent to give it.

Fourth. Of all seizures under the laws of the United States, on land caSseeiszures and prize or on waters not within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; of all

prizes brought into the United States ; and of all proceedings for the condemnation of property taken as prize.

Fifth. Of all cases arising under the patent-right, or copyright laws c. oPpayrtiegnhttsr:ights and of the United States.'

Sixth. Of all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy.

Bankruptcy..

Seventh. Of all controversies of a civil nature, where a State is á Where a State is a party.
party, except between a State and its citizens, or between a State

and citizens of other States, or aliens.

Eighth. Of all suits and proceedings against ambassadors, or other suDliarplcoamsaets.ic and conpublic ministers, or their domestics, or domestic, servants, or against consuls or vice-consuls .

SEO. 257. The justices of the Supreme Court, the circuit judges, Form of judicial

and the district judges, hereafter appointed, shall take the following R.8. , sec. 712, p. 135.

oath before they proceed to perform the duties of their respective

offices: "I,

do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will

administer justice without respect to persons, and do. equal right

to the poor and to the rich, andthat I will faithfully and impartially

discharge and perform all the duties incumbent upon me as

according to the best of my abilities and understanding, agreeably to the Constitution and laws of the United States: So help me God."

.SEC. 258. It shall not be lawful for any judge appointed under the prJaucdtgieceslpraow.hibited to

authority of the United States to exercise the profession or employ- " R. S. , sec. 713, p. 185. ment of counsel or attorney, or to be engaged in the practice of the

law. Any person offending against the prohibition of this section

shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor.

SEO. 259. The circuit justices, the circuit and district judges of the toEjxupdegnesseaawlalyowfarnocme United States, and the judges of the district courts of the United official residence.

States in Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico, shall each be allowed and

paid his necessary expenses of travel, and his . reasonable expenses (not to exceed ten dollars per day) actually incurred for maintenance, consequent upon his attending court or transacting other official

business in pursuance of law at any place other than his official place of residence, said expenses to be paid by the marshal of the district in which such court is held or official business transacted,

upon the written certificate of the justice orjudge. The official place Official residences. of residence of each justice and of each circuit judge while assigned to the Commerce Court shall be at Washington; and the official

place of residence of each circuit and district judge, and of each judge of the district courts of the United States in Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico, shall be at that place nearest his actual residence at
which either a circuit court of appeals or a district court is regularly held. Every such judge shall, upon his appointment, and from
time to time thereafter whenever he may change his official residence, in writing notify the Department of Justice of his official place of residence.
SEO. 260. When any judge of any court of the United States
appointed to hold his office during good behavior resigns his office, after having held a commission or commissions as judge of any such court or courts at least ten years continuously, and having attained the age of seventy years, he shall, during the residue of his natural life, receive the salary which is payable at the time of his retirement for the office that he held at the time of his resignation.

Retired judges. Vol. 86, p. 619.

1162

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Writs of ne exeat. R. S., sec. 717, p. 136.

SEC. 261. Writs of ne exeat may be granted by any justice of the

Restriction.

Supreme Court, in cases where they might be granted by the Supreme

Court; and by any district judge, in cases where they might be granted

by the district court of which he is a judge. But no writ of ne exeat

shall be granted unless a suit in equity is commenced, and satis-

factory proof is made to the court or judge granting the same that the

defendant designs quickly to depart from the United States.

Powertoissue writs. R. S., sec. 716, p. 136.

SEC. 262. The Supreme Court and the district courts shall have

power to issue writs of scire facias. The Supreme Court, the circuit

courts of appeals, and the district courts shall have power to issue

all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be

necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agree-

able to the usages and principles of law.

Temporary restraining orders.

SEC. 263. Whenever notice is given of a motion for an injunction

R. S., sec. 718, p. 136. out of a district court, the court or judge thereof may, if there appears

to be danger of irreparable injury from delay, grant an order restrain-

ing the act sought to be enjoined until the decision upon the motion ;

and such order may be granted with or without security, in the dis-

cretion of the court or judge.

Injunctions. R. S., sec. 719, p. 136.

SEC. 264. Writs of injunction may be granted by any justice of the

Supreme Court in cases where they might be granted by the Supreme

Court; and by any judge of a district court in cases where they might

CoIusrstujeusbtyicesS.upreme be granted by such court. But no justice of the Supreme Court shall hear or allow any application for an injunction or restraining order
in any cause pending in the circuit to which he is allotted , elsewhere

than within such circuit, or at such place outside of the same as the parties may stipulate in writing, except when it can not be heard by By circuit judge in the district judge of the district. In case of the absence from the jaubdsgeen.ce of district district of the district judge, or of his disability, any circuit judge of the circuit in which the district is situated may grant an injunction

or restraining order in any case pending in the district court, where

the same might be granted by the district judge. No injunction to SEC. 265. The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court bStaantkerucoputrcty.except in of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except

in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating

to proceedings in bankruptcy.

Injunctions based on unconstitutional- SEC. 266. No interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining

ity of state laws. Ante. p. 557.

the enforcement, operation, or execution of any statute of a State by restraining the action of any officer of such State in the enforcement

or execution of such statute, shall be issued or granted by any justice of the Supreme Court, or by any district court of the United States,

or by any judge thereof, or by any circuit judge acting as district

judge, upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of such statute,

unless the application for the same shall be presented to a justice of

the Supreme Court of the United States, or to a circuit or district

thHreeeajrudignegs. before judge, and shall be heard and determined by three judges, of whom at least one shall be a justice of the Supreme Court, or a circuit judge,

and the other two may be either circuit or district judges, and unless

Applications.

a majority of said three judges shall concur in granting such application. Whenever such application as aforesaid is presented to a jus-

tice of the Supreme Court, or to a judge, he shall immediately call to

Provisos,

his assistance to hear and determine the application two other judges :

Qualification of Provided, however, That one of such three judges shall be a justice of

judges. Notice to

State offi-

the

Supreme

Court,

or

a

circuit judge.

Said application shall not be

cials, etc.

heard or determined before at least five days' notice of the hearing

has been given to the governor and to the attorney general of the

State, and to such other persons as may be defendants in the suit:

inTgeomrpdoerrartyo rpersetrvaeinnt- Provided, That if of opinion that irreparable loss or damage would irreparable damage. result to the complainant unless a temporary restraining order is
granted, any justice of the Supreme Court, or any circuit or district

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

1163

judge, may grant such temporary restraining order at any time before

such hearing and determination of the application for an interlocutory injunction, but such temporary restraining order shall remain in force

only until the hearing and determination of the application for an Precedence to hearinterlocutory injunction upon notice as aforesaid. The hearing upon

such application for an interlocutory injunction shall be given pre-

cedence and shall be in every way expedited and be assigned for a hearing at the earliest practicable day after the expiration of the Direct appeal to notice hereinbefore provided for. An appeal may be taken direct to Supreme Court.

the Supreme Court of the United States from the order granting or

denying, after notice and hearing, an interlocutory injunction in such case.

SEO. 267. Suits in equity shall not be sustained in any court of tyRseusittrsi.ction on equi.

the United States in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete R. S., sec. 723, p. 137.

remedy may be had at law.

SEC.

268.

The

said

courts

shall

have

power

to

impose

and

admin-

Powers to adminis teroaths, and punish

ister all necessary oaths, and to punish, by fine or imprisonment, at coRn.tSe.m,pstesc.. 725, p. 137.
the discretion of the court, contempts of their authority : Provided, Limitation as to That such power to punish contempts shall not be construed to contempts.

extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any person in their presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of

justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of said courts in their

official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any such

officer, or by any party, juror, witness, or other person.to any lawful
writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the said courts. New trials,
SEO. 269. All of the said courts shall have power to grant new · R. S., sec. 726, p. 138.

trials, in cases where there has been a trial by jury, for reasons for

which new trials have usually been granted in the courts of law.

Power to hold to

SEO. 270. The judges of the Supreme Court and of the circuit security of peace and

courts of appeals and district courts, United States commissioners, goRo.dSb.e, hseacv.i7o2r7., p. 138. ·

and the judges and other magistrates of the several States, who are

or may be authorized by law to make arrests for offenses against the United States, shall have the like authority to hold to security of the peace and for good behavior, in cases arising under the Consti-

tution and laws of the United States, as may be lawfully exercised

by any judge or justice of the peace of the respective States, in cases cognizable before them.
SEC. 271. The district courts and the United States commission- etEc.n,foorfcifnogreoigrndecrons-, ers shall have power to carry into effect, according to the true intent suRls.. S., sec. 728, p. 138. and meaning thereof, the award or arbitration or decree of any
consul, vice consul, or commercial agent of any foreign nation, made or rendered by virtue of authority conferred on him as such consul, vice consul, or commercial agent, to sit as judge or arbitrator in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to his

charge, application for the exercise of such power being first made to such court or commissioner, by petition of such consul, vice consul, or commercial agent. And said courts and commissioners may issue Issue ofprocess. all proper remedial process, mesne and final, to carry into full effect such award, arbitration, or decree, and to enforce obedience thereto
by imprisonment in the jail or other place of confinement in the district in which the United States may lawfully imprison any person arrested under the authority of the United States, until such award, arbitration, or decree is complied with, or the parties are otherwise discharged therefrom, by the consent in writing of such consul, vice
consul, or commercial agent, or his successor in office, or by the authority of the foreign, government appointing such consul, vice Proviso. consul, or commercial agent: Provided, however, That the expenses Payment of exof the said imprisonment and maintenance of the prisoners, and the penses. cost of the proceedings, shall be borne by such foreign government, or by its consul, vice consul, or commercial agent requiring such

1164

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

Marshals to assist. imprisonment. The marshals of the United States shall serve all

such process, and do all other acts necessary and proper to carry

into effect the premises, under the authority of the said courts and

commissioners .

Pleadings by parties, etc.

SEC. 272. In all the courts of the United States the parties may

R.S.,sec. 747, p. 141. plead and manage their own causes personally, or by the assistance

of such counsel or attorneys at law as, by the rules of the said courts,

Court officials respectively, are permitted to manage and conduct causes therein. barred from practice SEC. 273. No clerk, or assistant or deputy clerk, of any Territorial,

in district, etc. R.8.,sec. 748, p. 141.

district, or circuit court of appeals, or of the Court of Claims, or of

the Supreme Court of the United States, or marshal or deputy marshal

of the United States within the district for which he is appointed,

shall act as a solicitor, proctor, attorney, or counsel in any cause

depending in any of said courts, or in any district for which he is

acting as such officer.

Punishment forviolation.

SEO. 274. Whoever shall violate the provisions of the preceding

R.S., sec. 749, p. 141. Section shall be stricken from the roll of attorneys by the court upon complaint, upon which the respondent shall have due notice and be

Chapter 12.

heard in his defense ; and in the case of a marshal or deputy marshal so acting, he shall be recommended by the court for dismissal from office.
CHAPTER TWELVE.

Juries.

JURIES.

Bea.
275. Qualifications and exemptions of jurors.
276. Jurors, how drawn.
277. Jurors, how to be apportioned in the district.
278. Race or color not to exclude.
279. Venire, how issued and served . 280. Talesmen for petit juries. 281. Special juries. 282. Number of grand jurors.

Sec.
283. Foreman of grand jury. 284. Grand juries, when summoned. 285. Discharge of grand juries. 286. Jurors not to serve more than once a
year. 287. Challenges. 288. Persons disqualified for service on
jury in prosecutions for polygamy, etc.

Qualifications and exemption ofjurors.

SEO. 275. Jurors to serve in the courts of the United States, in each

VR.oSl.. 2s1e,cp. 8. 4003., p. 150. State respectively, shall have the same qualifications, subject to the provisions hereinafter contained, and be entitled to the same exemp-

tions, as jurors of the highest court of law in such State may have

Drawings Vol. 21, p. 43.

and be entitled to at the time when such jurors for service in the courts of the United States are summoned.
SEO. 276. All such jurors, grand and petit, including those summoned during the session of the court, shall be publicly drawn from

a box containing, at the time of each drawing, the names of not less

than three hundred persons, possessing the qualifications prescribed

in the section last preceding, which names shall have been placed

therein by the clerk of such court and a commissioner, to be appointed Commissioner. Qualifications, etc. by the judge thereof, or by the judge senior in commission in dis-
tricts having more than one judge, which commissioner shall be a

citizen of good standing, residing in the district in which such court

is held, and a well-known member of the principal political party in

the district in which the court is held opposing that to which the

clerk may belong, the clerk and said commissioner each to place one

name in said box alternately, without reference to party affiliations

until the whole number required shall be placed therein.

Apportionment of

Jurors.

SEO. 277. Jurors shall be returned from such parts of the district,

R. S. ,sec. 802, p. 150. from time to time, as the court shall direct, so as to be most favorable

to an impartial trial, and so as not to incur an unnecessary expense,

or unduly burden the citizens of any part of the district with such service .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1165

SEO. 278. No citizen possessing all other qualifications which are quaNloifircaatcieo,n.etc., disor may be prescribed by law shall be disqualified for service as grand " Vol. 21 , p. 14.
or petit juror in any court of the United States on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.

SEO. 279. Writs of venire facias, when directed by the court, shall veInsisruee. and serving

issue from the clerk's office, and shall be served and returned by

the marshal in person, or by his deputy; or, in case the marshal or

In person. R.S., sec. 803, p.150.

his deputy is not an indifferent person, or is interested in the event

of the cause, by such fit person as may be specially appointed for that purpose by the court, who shall administer to him an oath that

he will truly and impartially serve and return the writ. Any person Bymail.
named in such writ who resides elsewhere than at the place at which the court is held, shall be served by the marshal mailing a copy thereof

to such person commanding him to attend as a juror at a time and place designated therein, which copy shall be registered and deposited in the post office addressed to· such person at his usual post-office address. And the receipt of the person so addressed for such registered copy shall be regarded as personal service of such writ upon such person, and no mileage shall be allowed for the service

of such person. The postage and registry fee shall be paid by the marshal and allowed him in the settlement of his accounts.
SEO. 280. When, from challenges or otherwise, there is not a petit juTriaelse. smen for petit jury to determine any civil or criminal cause, the marshal or his R.S.,sec. 801, p. 151. deputy shall, by order of the court in which such defect of jurors happens, return jurymen from the bystanders sufficient to complete the panel; and when the marshal or his deputy is disqualified as aforesaid, jurors may be so returned by such disinterested person as the court may appoint, and such person shall be sworn, as provided in the preceding section.
SEO. 281. When special juries are ordered in any district court, SpeGc.i,aslecj.u8r0i5e,sp.. 151.

they shall be returned by the marshal in the same manner and form
as is required in such cases by the laws of the several States.
SEO. 282. Every grand jury impaneled before any district court GCormapnodsjiutriioens., shall consist of not less than sixteen nor more than twenty-three .B.8.,sec. 803, p. 151. persons. If of the persons summoned less than sixteen attend,

they shall be placed on the grand jury, and the court shall order the marshal to summon, either immediately or for a day fixed, from the body of the district, and not from the bystanders, a sufficient number of persons to complete the grand jury. And whenever a chal-

lenge to a grand juror is - allowed, and there are not in attendance
other jurors sufficient to. complete the grand jury, the court shall make a like order to the marshal to summon a sufficient number of persons for that purpose.
SEO. 283. From the persons summoned and accepted as grand

Fooremsaecn..809, p. 151.

jurors, the court shall appoint the foreman, who shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations to witnesses appearing before the
grand jury. SEO. 284. No grand jury shall be summoned to attend any district grSanudmjmuroiens.ing of
court unless the judge thereof, in his own discretion or upon a noti- Ante,p. 267. fication by the district attorney that such jury will be needed, orders a venire to issue therefor. If the United States attorney for cistieecs.ondjuryinlarge any district which has a city or borough containing at least three hundred thousand inhabitants shall certify in writing to the district

judge, or the senior district judge of the district, that the exigencies of the public service require it, the judge may, in his discretion, also order à venire to issue for a second grand jury. And said court . Order ofcourt. may in term order a grand jury to be summoned at such time, and to serve such time as it may direct, whenever, in its judgment, it may be proper to do so. But nothing herein shall operate to extend yoInmdprinidsiocntmmeenntt,ebtce.-, beyond the time permitted by law the imprisonment before indict- not extended. ment found of a person accused of a crime or offense, or the time

1166

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

during which a person so accused may be held under recognizance

before indictment found.

Discharge. R.S., sec. 811, p. 151.

SEC. 285. The district courts, the district courts of the Territories,

and the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia may discharge

their grand juries whenever they deem a continuance of the sessions

of such juries unnecessary.

Service of petit ju-

rors.

SEC. 286. No person shall serve as a petit juror in any district

R.S., sec. 812, p. 151. court more than one term in a year; and it shall be sufficient cause of

challenge to any juror called to be sworn in any cause that he has been summoned and attended said court as a juror at any term of

said court held within one year prior to the time of such challenge. Peremptory chal- SEC. 287. When the offense charged is treason or a capital offense, lenges. Number allowed. the defendant shall be entitled to twenty and the United States to
R.S.,scc. 819, p. 152 six peremptory challenges. On the trial of any other felony, the
defendant shall be entitled to ten and the United States to six

peremptory challenges ; and in all other cases, civil and criminal,

each party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges ; and in all cases where there are several defendants or several plaintiffs, the parties on each side shall be deemed a single party for tlie purposes of

all challenges under this section. All challenges, whether to the array

or panel, or to individual jurors for cause or favor, shall be tried by the

court without the aid of triers .

Disqualifications in polygamy trials.

SEC. 288. In any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful

Vol. 22, p. 31.

cohabitation, under any statute of the United States, it shall be suffi-

cient cause of challenge to any person drawn or summoned as a juryman or talesman-

Living in practice of polygamy, etc.

First, that he is or has been living in the practice of bigamy, polyg-

Vol. 22, p. 31.

amy, or unlawful cohabitation with more than one woman, or that he is or has been guilty of an offense punishable either by sections one or

three of an Act entitled "An Act to amend section fifty-three hundred

and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in reference 103R9.. S., sec. 5352, p. to higamy, and for other purposes," approved March twenty-second,

Vol. 12, p. 501.

eighteen hundred and eighty-two, or by section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the United States, or the Act

of July first, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, entitled " An Act to

punish and prevent the practice of polygamy in the Territories of the

United States and other places, and disapproving and annulling cer-

tain Acts of the legislative assembly of the territory of Utah " ; or

Believes in polygamy, etc.

Second, that he believes it right for a man to have more than one

living and undivorced wife at the same time, or to live in the practice

Challenges.

of cohabiting with more than one woman. Any person appearing or offered as a juror or talesman, and chal-

lenged on either of the foregoing grounds, may be questioned on his oath as to the existence of any such cause of challenge ; and other

evidence may be introduced bearing upon the question raised by such

Right not to answer,

challenge; and this question shall be tried by the court. But as to the first ground of challenge before mentioned ,

the person

etc.

challenged shall not be bound to answer if he shall say upon his oath

that he declines on the ground that his answer may tend to criminate

himself; and if he shall answer as to said first ground, his answer shall

not be given in evidence in any criminal prosecution against him for

any offense above named; but if he declines to answer on any ground, he shall be rejected as incompetent.

SIXTY-FIRST - CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 ,

1167

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

Chapter 13.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Sec.
289. Circuit courts abolished ; records of to be transferred to district courts.
290. Suits pending in circuit courts to be disposed of in district courts.
291. Powers and duties of circuit courts imposed upon district courts.
:292. References to laws revised in this act deemed to refer to sections of act.

Sec.
293. Sections 1 to 5, Revised Statutes, to govern construction of this act.
294. Laws revised in this act to be construed as continuations of existing laws.
295. Inference of legislative construction
not to be drawn by reason of ar-. rangement of sections. 296. Act may be designated as "The
Judicial Code."

General provisions.

SEC. 289. The circuit courts of the United States, upon the taking ishedc. ut courts abol

effect of this Act, shall be, and hereby are, abolished;

and thereupon,

R. S., secs. 605-672, pp. 107-121.

on said date, the clerks of said courts shall deliver to the clerks of the Transfer of all rec

district courts of the United States for their respective districts all the.odirsdtsr,iectcc.,outrotsc.lerks of

journals, dockets, books, files, records, and other books and papers of or belonging to or in any manner connected with said circuit courts; and shall also on said date deliver to the clerks of said dis- Delivery of moneys,

trict courts all moneys, from whatever source received, then remaining in their hands or under their control as clerks of said circuit
courts, or received by them by virtue of their said offices. The jour- filTeso, betecc.,omoef dpiasrttrioctf nals, dockets, books, files, records, and other books and papers so courts. delivered to the clerks of the several district courts shall be and

remain a part of the official records of said district courts, and copies thereof, when certified under the hand and seal of the clerk of the dis-

trict court, shall be received as evidence equally with the originals

thereof;

and

the

clerks

of

the

several

district

courts

shall

have

the

Powers transferred todistrict court clerks.

same authority to exercise all the powers and to perform all the

duties with respect thereto as the clerks of the several circuit courts

had prior to the taking effect of this Act.

SEC. 290. All suits and proceedings pending in said circuit courts coPnetnidnuiendg siunitdsitstorbicet on the date of the taking effect of this Act, whether originally brought courts.
therein or certified thereto from the district courts, shall thereupon

and thereafter be proceeded with and disposed of in the district courts in the same manner and with the same effect as if originally begun therein, the record thereof being entered in the records of the circuit courts so transferred as above provided.

SEO. 291. Wherever, in any law not embraced within this Act, any erCs,irceutict.,coucrotnsf'eprorewd reference is made to, or any power or duty is conferred or imposed upon district courts.

upon, the circuit courts, such reference shall, upon the taking effect of this Act, be deemed and held to refer to, and to confer such power

and impose such duty upon, the district courts.

SEO.

292.

Wherever,

in any law not contained within this Act,

a References to laws revised in this act.

reference is made to any law revised or embraced herein, such refer-

ence, upon the taking effect hereof, shall be construed to refer to

the section of this Act into which has been carried or revised the

provision of law to which reference is so made.

SEO. 293. The provisions of sections one to five, both inclusive, woCrodnss, tetrc.uction of of the Revised Statutes, shall apply to and govern the construction "R.8. , secs. 1-5, p. 1, 2.

of the provisions of this Act. The words " this title," wherever
they occur herein, shall be construed to mean this Act. ·
SEC. 294. The provisions of this Act, so far as they are substan- tiEnxuiesdtbinygthliaswasctc. ontially the same as existing statutes, shall be construed as continua-
tions thereof, and not as new enactments, and there shall be no
implication of a change of intent by reason of a change of words in
such statute, unless such change of intent shall be clearly manifest. SEC. 295. The arrangement and classification of the several sec- Legislative construction not pre-
tions of this Act have been made for the purpose of a more conven- umed from arrange-
ient and orderly arrangement of the same, and therefore no infer- ment ofsections.

1168

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911 .

Title of Act. Chapter 14.

ence or presumption of a legislative construction is to be drawn by reason of the chapter under which any particular section is placed.
SEO. 296. This Act may be designated and cited as "The Judicial Code. "
CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

Repealing provisions.

REPEALING PROVISIONS.

Seo.

Seo.

297. Sections, acts, and parts of acts repealed .
298. Repeal not to affect tenure of office, or salary, or compensation of incumbents, etc.
299. Accrued rights, etc. , not affected.

300. Offenses committed, and penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities in
curred, how to be prosecuted and enforced.
301. Date this act shall be effective.

Laws repealed. Revised Statutes.

SEO. 297. The following sections of the Revised Statutes and Acts

and parts of Acts are hereby repealed :

Secs. 630-560, pp.8994.

Sections five hundred and thirty to five hundred and sixty, both

Becs. 662-564, pp. 94- inclusive; sections five hundred and sixty-two to five hundred and

96. Secs. 567-627, pp.97-

sixty-four,

both

inclusive ;

sections

five

hundred

and

sixty-seven

to

109.

six hundred and twenty-seven, both inclusive ; sections six hundred

11S7e. cs.629-647, pp. 110- and twenty-nine to six hundred and forty-seven, both inclusive ; sec-

130S.ecs.650-697.pp.118- tions six hundred and fifty to six hundred and ninety-seven, both

Sec.699, p. 130.

inclusive; section six hundred and ninety-nine ; sections seven hun-

13S5.ecs.702-714, pp. 131- dred and two to seven hundred and fourteen, both inclusive ; sections

137S.ecs.716-720, pp. 136, seven hundred and sixteen to seven hundred and twenty, both inclu-

Sec. 723, p. 137.

sive; section seven hundred and twenty-three ; sections seven hun-

141S.ecs. 725-749, pp. 137- dred and twenty-five to seven hundred and forty-nine, both inclusive ;

153S.ecs.800-822, pp. 150- sections eight hundred to eight hundred and twenty-two, both inclu-

Secs. 1019-1088, pp. sive ; sections ten hundred and forty-nine to ten hundred and eighty-

942901091-1093, p. eight, both inclusive; sections ten hundred and ninety-one to ten

200.

hundred and ninety-three, both inclusive, of the Revised Statutes.

Removalsfrom State courts.

"An Act to determine the jurisdiction of circuit courts of the

Vol. 18, p. 470.

United States and to regulate the removal of causes from State

courts, and for other purposes," approved March , third, eighteen

hundred and seventy-five.

Juries in polygamy trials.

Section five of an Act entitled " An Act to amend section fifty-three

Vol. 22, p. 31.

hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the United States,

Exceptions. Vol. 24, pp. 636,

641.

in

reference

to

bigamy,

and

for

other

purposes,"

approved

March

twenty-second, eighteen hundred and eighty-two ; but sections six,

seven, and eight of said Act, and sections one, two, and twenty-six of an Act entitled " An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to

amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised

Statutes of the United States, in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes,' approved March twenty-second, eighteen hundred and

eighty-two," approved March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-

seven, are hereby continued in force.

Bowman Act. Vol. 22, p. 485.

"An Act to afford assistance and relief to Congress and the executive departments in the investigation of claims and demands against the

Government," approved March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-

three.

Appeals from Dis- "An Act regulating appeals from the supreme court of the District

TterircrtitoofrCioallcuomubritas.and of Columbia and the supreme courts of the several Territories,"

Vol. 23, p. 443. approved March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-five.

Tucker Act. Vol. 24, p. 505.

'An Act to provide for the bringing of suits against the Govern-

Exceptions.

ment of the United States," approved March third, eighteen hundred

and eighty-seven, except sections four, five, six, seven, and ten

thereof.

Removalsfrom State Sections one, two, three, four, six, and seven of an Act entitled "An

courts, eta

Vol. 25, p. 433, Act to correct the enrollment of an Act approved March third, eight-

Vol. 24. p. 552 Vol. 18,p. 470

een hundred and eighty-seven, entitled ' An Act to amend sections one, two, three, and ten of an Act to determine the jurisdiction of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 231. 1911.

1169

the circuit courts of the United States, and to regulate the removal of causes from State courts, and for other purposes, ' approved March

third, eighteen hundred and seventy-five," approved August thir-

teenth, eighteen hundred and eighty- eight.

"An Act to withdraw from the Supreme Court jurisdiction of drCariwmnifnraolmcaSseuspwrietmh-e criminal cases not capital and confer the same on. the circuit courts Court. of appeals," approved January twentieth, eighteen hundred and Vol. 29, p. 492

ninety-seven . official
"An Act to amend sections one and two ofthe Act of March third, services. for

eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, Twenty-fourth Statutes at Large, Vol. 30, p. 194.

chapter three hundred and fifty-nine," approved Junetwenty-seventh,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight. An Act to amend the seventh section of the Act entitled ' An utAoprpyeoarldserisn. interloc
Act to establish circuit courts of appeals and to define and regulate VVooll..2364,,pp.. 812186.. in certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,

and for other purposes,' approved March third, eighteen hundred

and ninety-one, and the several Acts amendatory thereto," approved

April fourteenth, nineteen hundred and six.

All

Acts

and

parts

of

Acts

authorizing

the

appointment

of

United

Acts prior to Febrpary 1, 1911, relating to

States circuit or district judges, or creating or changing judicial jtuedrgmess, ,etcdistricts, circuits, or judicial districts or divisions thereof, or fixing or changing

the times or places of holding court therein, enacted prior to February first, nineteen hundred and eleven.

Sections one, two, three, four, five, the first paragraph of section. CAontmem,pepr.c5e39C-o5u44r,t5.77. six, and section seventeen of an Act entitled " An Act to create a Vol.34, p. 534.

commerce court, and to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to regulate commerce,' approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-

seven, as. heretofore amended, and for other purposes," approved June eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten.

Also all other Acts and parts of Acts, in so far as they are embraced.heArcetbsy.superseded within and superseded by this Act, are hereby repealed; the remaining edPocrotnitoinnsuendo.t affectportions thereof to be and remain in force with the same effect and
to the same extent as if this Act had not been passed .

SEO. 298. The repeal of existing laws providing for the appointment ofEfficfeecotfonprteesneuntreionfof judges and other officers mentioned in this Act, or affecting the cumbents. organization of the courts, shall not be construed to affect the tenure

of office of the incumbents (except the office be abolished), but they

shall continue to hold their respective offices during the terms for

which appointed, unless removed as provided by law; nor (except the office be abolished) shall such repeal affect the salary or fees or

compensation of any officer or person holding office or position by virtue of any law.

SEO. 299. The repeal of existing laws, or the amendments thereof, noPteanfdfeicntgeds.uits, etc. embraced in this Act, shall not affect any act done, or any right

accruing or accrued, or any suit or proceeding, including those pending on writ of error, appeal, certificate, or writ of certiorari, in any appellate court referred to or included within, the provisions of this

Act, pending at the time of the taking effect of this Act, but all such suits and proceedings, and suits and proceedings for causes arising

or acts done prior to such date, may be commenced and prosecuted
within the same time, and with the same effect, as if said repeal or amendments had not been made.
Prosecution ofprior SEO. 300. All offenses committed, and all penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred prior to the taking effect hereof, under any law offenses, etc.
embraced in, amended, or repealed by this Act, may be prosecuted
and punished, or sued for and recovered, in the district courts, in the · same manner and with the same effect as if this Act had not been

passed. SEO. 301. This Act shall take effect and be in force on and after ,19I12n. effect January 1
January first, nineteen hundred and twelve.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

1170

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 236, 237. 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [A. R. 21225.]
[Public, No. 476.]

CHAP. 236. -An Act For the relief of certain persons having supplied labor and materials for the prosecution of the work of making the main canal of the Belle Fourche irrigation project.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United gaBteilolneprFoojuerctc.he irri- States of America in Congress assembled, That all persons having sup-
maPteerrsioalnss fsourp, apultyhionrg- plied labor and materials for the prosecution of the work of making iazgeadinsttocbonrtirnacgt,osrus.it the main canal of the Belle Fourche irrigation project under the con-
tract for the construction thereof, entered into by Widell-Finley Com-
pany, under date of April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and five,
pursuant to advertisement for said contract, dated February tenth, nineteen hundred and five, and their assigns and legal representatives,

Vol. 28, p.278. Vol. 33, p.811.
Proviso. No expense United States.

are hereby given the full rights and remedies afforded to persons supplying labor and materials in the prosecution of public works, as set forth in the Act of August thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, entitled " An Act for the protection of persons furnishing materials and labor for the construction of public works," to the same force, extent, and effect as if the Act had not been amended, modified, or repealed, with full right of action in the name of the United States for
his or their use and benefit against said contractors and sureties upon to the bond furnished to the United States under the said contract: Pro-
vided, That such action and its prosecution shall involve the United States in no expense.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [H.R.29360. ]
[Public, No.477.]

CHAP. 237.-An Act Making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and
judicial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year endingJune thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Legislative, execu- States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, ptriovpe,riaantdiojnusd. icial ap- and the same are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, in full compensation for the service of the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, for the objects hereinafter expressed, namely :

Legislative. Senate.

LEGISLATIVE . SENATE.

Pay of Senators. Mileage.

For compensation of Senators, six hundred and ninety thousand dollars.
For mileage of Senators, forty-seven thousand dollars.

Officers, clerks, etc. For compensation of the officers, clerks, messengers, and others in

the service of the Senate, namely :

Vice President's OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT: Secretary to the Vice President,

office.

four thousand dollars ; messenger, one thousand four hundred and

forty dollars ; telegraph operator, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

telegraph page, six hundred dollars ; in all, seven thousand five hun-

dred and forty dollars.

Chaplain.

CHAPLAIN: For Chaplain of the Senate, one thousand two hundred

dollars.

Secretary of the Senate, assistant,

OFFICE OF SECRETARY: Secretary of the Senate, including compen-

clerks, etc.

sation as disbursing officer of salaries of Senators and of the contingent

fund of the Senate, six thousand five hundred dollars ; hire of horse

and wagon for the Secretary's office, four hundred and twenty dollars ;

assistant secretary, Henry M. Rose, five thousand dollars; chief clerk,

three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; financial clerk, three

thousand dollars, and one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars

additional while the office is held by the present incumbent; minute

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1171

and journal clerk, and enrolling clerk, at three thousand dollars each ; principal clerk, reading clerk, executive clerk, and assistant financial

clerk, at two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars each ; librarian, file clerk, chief bookkeeper, and clerk, compiling a history of revenue and general appropriation bills, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; compiler of Navy Yearbook and indexer for Senate YeCaormbpoiolke,retoc.f Navy public documents, Pitman Pulsifer, three thousand five hundred

dollars; assistant indexer for Senate public documents, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars; keeper of stationery, two thousand four hundred dollars; printing clerk, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars; three clerks, at two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars each; four clerks, at two thousand one hundred dollars

each; assistant librarian, two thousand two hundred and twenty

dollars; assistant librarian, one thousand eight hundred dollars;

assistant librarian, one thousand six hundred dollars ; skilled laborer,

one thousand two hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand eight hundred

dollars; clerk, 'one thousand six hundred dollars ; assistant keeper of

stationery, one thousand nine hundred dollars ; assistant in stationery

room, one thousand two hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand

four hundred and forty dollars ; assistant messenger, one thousand

two hundred dollars ; three laborers, at eight hundred and forty

dollars each ; three laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars

each; in all, ninety-two thousand four hundred and sixty dollars.

Document room.

DOCUMENT ROOM: Superintendent, George H. Boyd, three thou- Superintendent, etc.

sand dollars; first -assistant, two thousand dollars; assistant, two

thousand dollars; assistant, one thousand four hundred and forty

dollars; two clerks, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars

each; skilled laborer, one thousand two hundred dollars; in all,

twelve thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

Clerks and messen.

CLERKS AND MESSENGERS TO COMMITTEES : Clerk of printing records, gers to committees.

two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars; assistant clerk, one

thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand four hun-

dred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Appropriations, four thousand dollars ; two assistant clerks, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dol-

lars; clerk and stenographer to the Committee on Finance, three thousand dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Claims, two thousand five hun dred dollars; assistant clerk, two thousand dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; messenger, nine hun-

dred dollars; clerk to the Committee on Commerce, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Pensions, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; two assistant clerks, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars each; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on the Judiciary, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger, one

thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Military Affairs, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant clerk, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; messenger, nine hundred dollars; clerk to the Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads, two thousand five hundred dollars; three assistant clerks, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars each; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on the District of Columbia, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant clerk, one

1172

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237: 1911 .

thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; clerk to the Committee on Foreign Relations, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Engrossed Bills, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars ; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; clerk to the Joint Committee on the

Library, two thousand five hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Naval Affairs, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant clerk, one thou-

sand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Indian Affairs, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; messenger, one

thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Manufactures, two thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk to the Committee on Public Lands, two thousand five hundred

dollars; assistant clerk, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; clerk to the Committee to Audit and Control the Contingent Expenses of the Senate, two thousand five hundred dollars; messenger, one

thousand four hundred and forty dollars; clerk to the Committee on Interstate Commerce, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant

Clerks at $2,200.

clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; messenger, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; clerks to the Committees on the Census, Education and Labor, Territories, Public Health and National Quarantine, Private Land Claims, Patents, Coast Defenses, Privileges and Elections, Additional Accommodations for the Library of Con-

gress, Rules, Civil Service and Retrenchment, Enrolled Bills, Geological Survey, Railroads, Pacific Railroads, Pacific Islands and Porto

Rico, Philippines, Cuban Relations, Interoceanic Canals, Transportation and Sale of Meat Products, Five Civilized Tribes of Indians,

Mississippi River and its Tributaries, Expenditures in the Department of State, University of the United States, Canadian Relations,

Transportation Routes to the Seaboard, Women Suffrage, Mines and Mining, to Examine the Several Branches ofthe Civil Service, Revolutionary Claims, Immigration, Fisheries, Forest Reservations and the

Protection of Game, Corporations Organized in the District of Colum-

bia, Coast and Insular Survey, Irrigation and Reclamation of Arid Lands, Indian Depredations, Industrial Expositions, to Investigate Trespassers on Indian Lands, Standards, Weights and Measures, Disposition of Useless Papers in Executive Departments, Expendi-

tures in the Treasury Department, Expenditures in the War Department, Expenditures in the Department of Agriculture, Expenditures in the Interior Department, Expenditures in the Department of Jus-

Assistant clerks.

tice, Expenditures in the Navy Department, Expenditures in the Post Office Department, Conservation of National Resources, and clerk to the Conference Minority of the Senate, fifty in all, at two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars each; assistant clerks to the Committees on Private Land Claims, Rules, Pacific Islands and

Porto Rico, Philippines, and Conference Minority of the Senate, five in all, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; assistant clerks to the Committees on Education and Labor, Territories, Public Health and National Quarantine, Coast Defenses; Privileges and Elections, Enrolled Bills, Cuban Relations, Interoceanic Canals, Manufactures, Immigration, and Fisheries, eleven in all, at one miMtetseseesngers to com- thousand four hundred and forty dollars each; messengers to the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1173

Committees on the Census, Territories, Patents, Privileges and Elec-

tions, Additional Accommodations for the Library, Rules, Civil Serv-

ice and Retrenchment, Geological Survey, Railroads, Pacific Railroads, Pacific Islands and Porto Rico, Philippines, Transportation and Sale of Meat Products, Five Civilized Tribes of Indians, Missis-

sippi River and its Tributaries, Expenditures in the Department of State, Manufactures, University of the United States, Canadian

Relations, Transportation Routes to the Seaboard, Woman Suffrage, Mines and Mining, to Examine the Several Branches of the Civil

Service, Revolutionary Claims, Immigration, Fisheries, Forest Reservations and the Protection of Game, Corporations Organized in the

District of Columbia, Coast and Insular Survey, Irrigation and Recla-

mation of Arid Lands, Indian Depredations, Industrial Expositions,

to Investigate Trespassers on Indian Lands, Standards Weights and

Measures, Disposition of Useless Papers in Executive Departments, Expenditures in the Treasury Department, Expenditures in the War

Department, Expenditures in the Department of Agriculture, Ex-

penditures in the Interior Department, Expenditures in the Department of Justice, Expenditures in the Navy Department, Expenditures in the Post Office Department, and Conservation of National

Resources, forty-three in all, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars each; in all, three hundred and eighteen thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.
For additional amount for the clerk to the Committee on Rules
for revising and preparing for publication biennially, under the direction of the committee, the Senate Manual, to be immediately available, one thousand dollars.

Senate Manual. Revising, etc.

OFFICE OF SERGEANT AT ARMS AND DOORKEEPER: Sergeant at asSsiesrtgaenatsn,tetac.t Arms, Arms and Doorkeeper, six thousand five hundred dollars ; horse and wagon for his use, four hundred and twenty dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary; clerk to Sergeant at Arms, two thou-

sand five hundred dollars ; assistant doorkeeper, two thousand
five hundred and ninety-two dollars; acting assistant doorkeeper, two thousand five hundred and ninety-two dollars; four messengers, Messengers, etc.

acting as assistant doorkeepers, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; forty-seven messengers, at one thousand four hundred

and forty dollars each; two messengers on the floor of the Senate, at two thousand dollars each; clerk on Journal work for Congres-

sional Record, to be selected by the official reporters, two thousand dollars; storekeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars; uphol-

sterer and locksmith, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; cabinetmaker, one thousand two hundred dollars ; three carpenters,

at one thousand and eighty dollars each; janitor, one thousand two hundred dollars; four skilled laborers, at one thousand dollars each ; Laborers, etc.

two skilled laborers, at nine hundred dollars each; laborer in charge of private passage, eight hundred and forty dollars; three female

attendants in charge of ladies' retiring room, at seven hundred and

twenty dollars each; chief telephone operator, one thousand two

hundred dollars; two telephone operators, at nine hundred dollars

each; night telephone operator, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

telephone page, seven hundred and twenty dollars; superintendent of press gallery, one thousand eight hundred dollars; assistant superintendent of press gallery, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

two laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; thirty laborers,

at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; sixteen pages for the Pages.

Senate Chamber, at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per day each during the session, eight thousand four hundred dollars; in all,

one hundred and fifty-two thousand four hundred and eighty- four dollars.

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-76

1174

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

Senate Office Build-

ing.

For the following for Senate Office Building under the Sergeant

Care, eto.

at Arms, namely : Stenographer in charge of furniture accounts and

keeper of furniture records, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two messengers, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars each; attendant in charge of bathing rooms, one thousand eight hundred

dollars ; two attendants in bathing rooms, at seven hundred and

twenty dollars each; three attendants to women's toilet rooms, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; janitor for bathing rooms,

seven hundred and twenty dollars ; three messengers, acting as mail

carriers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; and messenger

for service to the press correspondents, nine hundred dollars ; in all,

Police force.

fourteen thousand seven hundred dollars. For police force for Senate Office Building under the Sergeant at

Arms, namely: For seventeen privates, at one thousand and fifty

dollars each, one special officer, one thousand two hundred dollars,

Postmaster, etc.

nineteen thousand and fifty dollars. POST OFFICE : Postmaster, two thousand two hundred and fifty

dollars ; assistant postmaster and mail carrier, two thousand and

eighty-eight dollars ; clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; seven

mail carriers and one wagon master, at one thousand two hundred

dollars each; four riding pages, at nine hundred and twelve dollars

and fifty cents each; in all, nineteen thousand one hundred and

eighty-eight dollars.

Folding room. Superintendent, etc.

FOLDING ROOM: Superintendent, two thousand one hundred and

sixty dollars; assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk,

one thousand two hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand four hun-

dred dollars ; nine folders, at one thousand dollars each; fourteen

folders, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; page, six hundred

dollars ; in all, twenty-seven thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

Chief engineer, etc. UNDER SUPERINTENDENT OF THE CAPITOL BUILDING AND GROUNDS :

Chief engineer, two thousand one hundred and sixty dollars ; assistant engineer and electrician , one thousand eight hundred dollars ;

three assistant engineers, at one thousand four hundred and forty dollars each ; ten conductors of elevators, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; two machinists and electricians, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; four laborers, at seven hundred and

twenty dollars each ; laborer in charge of Senate toilet rooms in old library space, six hundred and sixty dollars ; attendant for service in

old library portion of the Capitol, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

in all, twenty-eight thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.
Elevator conductors, Senate Office For the following for the Senate Office Building, under the Super-

Building.

intendent of the Capitol Building and Grounds, subject to the control

and supervision of the Senate Committee on Rules, namely: Four-

teen elevator conductors, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ;

in all, sixteen thousand eight hundred dollars. Clerks to Senators. CLERKS TO SENATORS : For thirty-five annual clerks to Senators

who are not chairmen of committees, at two thousand dollars each,

seventy thousand dollars.

Stenographers to Senators.

STENOGRAPHERS TO SENATORS : For twenty-two stenographers to

Senators who are not chairmen of committees, and three stenogra-

phers to the chairmen of the three junior minority.committees, at one

thousand two hundred dollars each, thirty thousand dollars.

Contingent expenses. Stationeryand news-

CONTINGENT EXPENSES, NAMELY: For stationery and newspapers

papers .

for Senators, and the President of the Senate, including five thousand

dollars for stationery for committees and officers of the Senate, six-

Postage stamps

teen thousand six hundred and twenty-five dollars. For postage stamps for the office of the Secretary of the Senate,

two hundred dollars ; for the office of the Sergeant of Arms, one hun-

dred and fifty dollars ; in all, three hundred and fifty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1175 .

For expenses of maintaining and equipping horses and mail wagons for carrying the mails, six thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary:
For materials for folding, two thousand dollars.
For folding speeches and pamphlets, at a rate not exceeding one dollar per thousand, two thousand dollars.

Horses and wagons. Folding.

For fuel, oil, and cotton waste, and advertising, for the heating and electrical apparatus, exclusive of labor, forty-five thousand dollars, said sum to be also available for use of the power plant which furnishes heat and light for the Capitol and congressional buildings.
For purchase of furniture, eight thousand five hundred dollars. For materials for furniture and repairs of same, exclusive of labor, three thousand dollars.

Fuel, oil, etc. Use for power plant. Furniture.

For services in cleaning, repairing, and varnishing furniture, two thousand dollars.
For packing boxes, nine hundred and seventy dollars. For miscellaneous items, exclusive of labor, fifty thousand dollars.

Packing boxes. Miscellaneous items.

For miscellaneous items on account of the Maltby Building, eight-
een thousand four hundred and eighty dollars. For rent of warehouse for storage of public documents for the
Senate, three thousand six hundred dollars, to be immediately available, and authority is hereby given to use any part or all of said sum for moving documents contained in said warehouse to buildings owned by the Government.
For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, including compensation to stenographers to committees, at such rate as may be fixed by the Committee to Audit and Control the Contingent Expenses of the Senate, but not exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents per printed page, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For reporting the debates and proceedings of the Senate, thirty thousand dollars, payable in equal monthly installments.

Maltby Building. Storage warehouse. Moving documents. Investigations.
Reporting debates.

CAPITOL POLICE.

Capitol police.

For captain, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; three lieuten- Pay. ants, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two special officers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; and sixty-seven privates,
· at one thousand and fifty dollars each; one-half of said privates to be selected by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and one-half by the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives; in all, seventy-
eight thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, one half to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and the other half to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
For contingent expenses, three hundred dollars, one half to be Contingentexpenses. disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and the other half to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY.

Congressional DI. rectory.

For expenses of compiling, preparing, and indexing the Congres- Compiling, etc. sional Directory, to be expended under the direction of the Joint Committee on Printing, one thousand six hundred dollars.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

House ofRepresentatives.

For compensation of Members of the House of Representatives", DePleagyateosf, aMnedmbReerssi, Delegates from Territories, the Resident Commissioner from Porto dent Commissioners. Rico, and the Resident Commissioners from the Philippine Islands,
two million nine hundred and eighty-nine thousand five hundred dollars.

1176

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Mileage.

For mileage of Representatives and Delegates, and expenses of

Resident Commissioners, one hundred and fifty-four thousand dollars. Officers, clerks, etc. For compensation of the officers, clerks, messengers, and others in

Speaker's office.

the service of the House of Representatives, namely: OFFICE OF THE SPEAKER: Secretary to the Speaker, four thousand

dollars; clerk to the Speaker's table, three thousand six hundred

dollars, and for preparing Digest of the Rules, one thousand dollars per annum ; clerk to the Speaker, one thousand six hundred dollars;

messenger to the Speaker, one thousand four hundred and forty

dollars ; in all, eleven thousand six hundred and forty dollars.

Chaplain .

CHAPLAIN: For Chaplain of the House, one thousand two hundred

dollars.

Clerk of the House,

clerks, etc.

OFFICE OF THE CLERK: Clerk of the House of Representatives,

including compensation as disbursing officer of the contingent fund, six thousand five hundred dollars; hire of horse and wagon for use of

the Clerk's office, nine hundred dollars, or so much thereof as may b necessary; chief clerk, four thousand five hundred dollars ; journal clerk, and two reading clerks, at four thousand dollars each; stenog-

rapher to journal clerk, nine hundred and eighty dollars; disbursing clerk, three thousand four hundred dollars; tally clerk, three thousand three hundred dollars ; file clerk, three thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars ; enrolling clerk, three thousand dollars ; printing and bill clerk, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; assistant to chief clerk, index clerk, and assistant enrolling clerk, at two thousand five hundred

dollars each; assistant disbursing clerk, two thousand four hundred dollars; notification clerk, two thousand three hundred dollars; dis-

tributing clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant

journal clerk, and stationery clerk, at two thousand two hundred

dollars each; librarian, and document and bill clerk, at two thousand one hundred dollars each ; resolution and petition- clerk, printing and

document. clerk, and assistant stationery clerk, at two thousand dollars each ; assistant file clerk, and document clerk, at one thousand nine hundred dollars each; assistant enrolling clerk, superintendent

clerk's document room, assistant to printing and bill clerk, two

assistant librarians, and one clerk, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; assistant index clerk, one thousand seven hundred

dollars ; four clerks, at one thousand six hundred and eighty dollars

each; bookkeeper, assistant in Clerk's office, and assistant in disburs-

ing office, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; special employee in clerk's document room, one thousand five hundred and eighty dollars; telegraph operator, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

assistant telegraph operator, authorized and named in resolution adopted January fifteenth, nineteen hundred and two, one thousand four hundred dollars ; stenographer to clerk, one thousand four hun-

dred dollars ; locksmith, who shall be skilled in his trade, one thousand

three hundred dollars ; messenger in chief clerk's office, and assistant in stationery room, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ;

messenger in file room, two messengers in disbursing office, and

assistant in House library, at one thousand one hundred dollars each ;

assistant in document room, nine hundred and eighty dollars ; three telephone operators, at nine hundred dollars each; three telephone operators, at seventy-five dollars per month each from December

first, nineteen hundred and eleven, to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and twelve; night telephone operator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; for services of a substitute telephone operator when required, at two dollars and fifty cents per day, four hundred and fifty dollars;

page, nine hundred dollars; assistant in charge of bathroom, one

thousand four hundred dollars; three laborers in the bathroom, at nine hundred dollars each; two janitors, including one for index room and police detention room, at eight hundred and forty dollars each;

janitor in House library, and janitor in file room, at eight hundred

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III.. CH. 237. 1911.

1177

dollars each; janitor in journal clerk's room, seven hundred and

twenty dollars; two laborers, and page in enrolling room, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; allowance to chief clerk for steno-

graphic and typewriter services, one thousand dollars; in all, one hundred and twenty-nine thousand eight hundred and sixty-five dollars.
UNDER SUPERINTENDENT OFTHE CAPITOL BUILDING AND GROUNDS :

Chief engineer, etc.

Chief engineer, one thousand nine hundred dollars ; three assistant engineers, at one thousand three hundred dollars each; twenty-four conductors of elevators, including fourteen for service in the House

Office Building, at one thousand two hundred dollars each, who shall be under the supervision and direction of the Superintendent of the

Capitol Building and Grounds ; machinist, one thousand three hundred dollars; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; four

laborers, at eight hundred dollars each; in all, forty thousand three hundred dollars.
CLERKS, MESSENGERS, AND JANITORS TO COMMITTEES: Clerk to the Clerks, messengers, and janitors to com-
Committee on Ways and Means, three thousand dollars; assistant mittees. clerk and stenographer, two thousand dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand nine hundred dollars ; two janitors, one at one thousand
dollars and one at seven hundred and twenty dollars ; clerk to the Committee on Appropriations, four thousand dollars, and one thousand dollars additional while the office is held by the present incumbent; assistant clerk and stenographer, two thousand five hundred At$2,500.

dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand nine hundred dollars ; janitor, one thousand dollars ; clerks to Committees on Accounts, Agriculture,

Claims, District of Columbia, Foreign Affairs, Interstate and Foreign

Commerce, Indian Affairs, Invalid Pensions, Judiciary, Military Affairs, Pensions, Post Offices and Post Roads, Public Buildings and Grounds, Rivers and Harbors, War Claims, and clerk to continue

Digest of Claims under resolution of March seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, sixteen in all, at two thousand five hundred dollars

each; clerk to Committee on Naval Affairs, two thousand four hun-

dred dollars ; stenographer to Committee on Invalid Pensions, two At $2,000. thousand one hundred and ninety dollars ; clerks to the Committees

on Banking and Currency, Census, Coinage Weights and Measures, Elections Numbers One, Two, and Three, Enrolled Bills, Immigration

and Naturalization, Industrial Arts and Expositions, Insular Affairs, Irrigation of Arid Lands, Labor, Library, Merchant Marine and Fisheries, Patents, Printing, Public Lands, Revision of the Laws, Rules, Territories, additional clerk to the Committee on Interstate and For-

eign Commerce, and assistant clerk to the Committee on Invalid Pensions, twenty-two in all, at two thousand dollars each; assistant Assistant clerks.

clerks to the Committees on Accounts, Agriculture, District of Columbia, Foreign Affairs, Indian Affairs, and Rivers and Harbors, six in all, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; assistant clerks to

the Committees on the Judiciary, and Pensions, two in all, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; assistant clerks to the Committees

on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, Military Affairs, and Naval Affairs, three in all, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; assist-

ant clerk to the Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads, one

thousand four hundred dollars; assistant clerks to the Committees on

Banking and Currency, Claims, Public Buildings and Grounds, Public Lands, and War Claims, five in all, at one thousand two hundred dol-

lars each; in all, one hundred and thirty-three thousand five hundred and ten dollars.
Janitors. For janitors for rooms of the Committees on Accounts, Agriculture,

Elections Number One, Invalid Pensions, Interstate and Foreign Com-

merce, Military Affairs, Naval Affairs, Post Offices and Post Roads,

Printing, and Rivers and Harbors, ten in all, at one thousand dollars

1178

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911. .

each ; for janitors for rooms of the Committees on Banking and Currency, Census, Claims, Coinage Weights and Measures, District of

Columbia, Elections Numbers Two and Three, Enrolled Bills, Expend-

itures in the Navy Department, Foreign Affairs, Immigration and

Naturalization, Indian Affairs, Industrial Arts and Expositions, Insu-

lar Affairs, Irrigation of Arid Lands, Judiciary, Labor, Library, Mer-

chant Marine and Fisheries, Patents, Pensions, Public Buildings and

Grounds, Public Lands, Revision of the Laws, Rules, Territories, and

War Claims, twenty-seven in all, at seven hundred and twenty dollars

Appointments, etc. each; and said janitors shall be appointed by the chairman, respec-

tively, of said committees, and shall perform under the direction of

the Doorkeeper all of the duties heretofore required of messengers detailed to said committees by the Doorkeeper, and shall be subject

to removal by the Doorkeeper at any time after the termination ofthe

Congress during which they were appointed ; in all, twenty-nine thou-

Clerks to commit- sand four hundred and forty dollars.

tees, session.

For nine clerks to committees, at ,six dollars each per day during

the session, eleven thousand three hundred and forty dollars.

Sergeant at Arms,

deputy, etc.

OFFICE OF SERGEANT AT ARMS : Sergeant at Arms of the House

of Representatives, six thousand five hundred dollars ; Deputy Ser-

geant at Arms, two thousand five hundred dollars ; cashier, three thousand four hundred dollars ; financial clerk, two thousand seven

hundred dollars ; bookkeeper, two thousand two hundred dollars ; · deputy sergeant at arms in charge of pairs, one thousand eight hun-

dred dollars ; clerk in charge of pairs, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant bookkeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

messenger, one thousand four hundred dollars ; skilled laborer, eight

hundred and forty dollars ; stenographer and typewriter, nine hundred dollars ; and for hire of horse and wagon for the office of the

Sergeant at Arms, six hundred dollars ; in all, twenty-five thousand

eight hundred and forty dollars.

House Office Building.

For police force House Office Building under the Sergeant at Arms,

Police force.

namely: Captain, one thousand six hundred dollars ; two lieutenants,

at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; fifteen privates, at one thousand and fifty dollars each ; in all, nineteen thousand seven hun-

dred and fifty dollars.

Doorkeeper, assistant, etc.

OFFICE OF DOORKEEPER : Doorkeeper, five thousand dollars ; hire

of horses and wagons and repairs of same, one thousand two hundred

dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary ; assistant door-

keeper, two thousand five hundred dollars ; department messenger, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; special employee,

John T. Chancey, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; special em-

ployee, one thousand five hundred dollars ; superintendent of report-

Messengers.

ers gallery, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk to Doorkeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars ; janitor, one thousand five hundred dollars; twenty-five messengers, at one thousand one hundred

and eighty dollars each; messenger to the Speaker's table, one thou-

Laborers, etc.

sand two hundred dollars ; fourteen messengers on the soldiers' roll, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; twelve laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two laborers in the water-closet,

one at eight hundred and forty dollars and one at seven hundred and

twenty dollars; skilled laborer, eight hundred and forty dollars ;

nine laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; laborer, six hundred and eighty dollars ; two laborers, known as cloakroom men,

at eight hundred and forty dollars each; eight laborers, known as

cloakroom men, two at seven hundred and twenty dollars each, and
six at six hundred dollars each ; female attendant in ladies' retiring Folding room . room, eight hundred dollars ; superintendent of folding room, two Superintendent,etc. thousand five hundred dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; four

clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each : foreman, one thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1179

sand eight hundred dollars ; assistant foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; second assistant foreman, one thousand two hun-

dred dollars; messenger, one thousand two hundred dollars ; page, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; thirty-two folders, at nine hundred dollars each ; two

night watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two drivers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; two chief pages, at one thousand two hundred dollars.each; messenger in charge of telephones, one thousand two hundred dollars ; messenger in charge of telephones (for the minority), one thousand two hundred dollars ;

forty-six pages, during the session, including two riding pages, four telephone pages, press-gallery page, and ten pages for duty at the entrances to the Hall of the House, at two dollars and fifty cents per day each, twenty-three thousand one hundred and fifty dollars ; horse

Pages.

and buggy for department messenger, two hundred and fifty dollars; superintendent of document room, two thousand nine hundred
dollars ; assistant superintendent, two thousand one hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand seven hundred dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; seven assistants, at one thousand two

DSuopceurmienntetnrdoenotm,.etc.

hundred and eighty dollars each ; assistant, one thousand one hundred dollars; janitor, nine hundred and twenty dollars ; two attendants in the old library space, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; messenger to press room, one thousand dollars ; in all, one hundred and ninety-two thousand seven hundred.and ten dollars .

For employment of Joel Grayson in document room, two thousand Joel Grayson. one hundred and fifty dollars.

For the following minority employees authorized and named in the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives March seventeenth, nineteen hundred and nine, namely: Special employee, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; special messenger and assistant pair clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; special messenger, one thousand five hundred dollars ; special chief page and pair clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; in all, six thousand nine hundred dollars.

Minorityemployees.

For the assistant department messenger authorized and named in the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives December seventh, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, two thousand dollars.
For the special messenger authorized and named in the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives January fifteenth, nineteen hundred, one thousand five hundred dollars.

Special employees.

To continue employment and for compensation of the assistant foreman of the folding room, authorized and named in the resolution

adopted by the House of Representatives February sixth, nineteen hundred, at three dollars and eighty-five cents per day, one thousand four hundred and nine dollars and ten cents.

To continue the employment of the person named in the resolution of the House adopted June fifth, nineteen hundred, as a laborer, eight hundred and forty dollars.

To continue the employment of the laborer authorized and named in the resolution of the House adopted December nineteenth, nineteen hundred and one, at seventy dollars per month, eight hundred and forty dollars.

To continue the employment of the special messenger authorized and named in the resolution of the House adopted February first, nineteen hundred and ten, one thousand five hundred dollars.
Successors to any of the employees provided for in the seven preceding paragraphs may be named by the House of Representatives at any time.

Appointments.

For clerk to the conference minority of the House of Representa- Minority confertives, two thousand dollars ; assistant clerk, one thousand eight hun-

1180

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.237 . 1911 .

dred dollars ; in all, three thousand eight hundred dollars. Said clerk

and assistant clerk to be appointed by the chairman of the conference

minority.

Postmaster, assistant, etc.

OFFICE OF POSTMASTER : Postmaster, four thousand dollars ; assist-

ant postmaster, two thousand two hundred dollars ; registry and

money order clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; twelve mes-

sengers, including messenger to superintend transportation of mails, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; fourteen messengers,

at one hundred dollars per month each from December first to June

thirtieth, inclusive, seven months, nine thousand eight hundred

dollars ; and one laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; in all,

thirty-two thousand six hundred and twenty dollars. Horses and wagons. For hire of horses and mail wagons for carrying the mails, two
thousand five hundred dollars, or so much thereof as may be neces-
sary . Official reporters. OFFICIAL REPORTERS: Six official reporters of the proceedings and

debates of the House, at five thousand dollars each; assistant, two

thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, thirty-two thousand five hundred dollars.

Janitor.

For janitor for rooms of official reporters of debates, eight hundred

dollars.

Stenographers to committees.

STENOGRAPHERS TO COMMITTEES : Four stenographers to commit-

tees, at five thousand dollars each; assistant, two thousand dollars ;

janitor, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; in all, twenty-two thou-

sand seven hundred and twenty dollars .

"During the ses sion" to mean 210

That wherever the words " during the session " occur in the fore-

days.

going paragraphs they shall be construed to mean the two hundred

and ten days from December fourth, nineteen hundred and eleven ,

to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, both inclusive,

Clerk hire, Members and Delegates.

CLERK HIRE, MEMBERS AND DELEGATES: To pay each Member,

Delegate, and Resident Commissioner, for clerk hire, necessarily

employed by him in the discharge of his official and representative

duties, one thousand five hundred dollars per annum, in monthly

installments, five hundred and ninety-eight thousand five hundred

dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary ; and Representatives

and Delegates elect to Congress whose credentials in due form of law

have been duly filed with the Clerk of the House of Representatives,

R. S., sec. 31, p. 6. in accordance with the provisions of section thirty-one of the Revised

Statutes of the United States, shall be entitled to payment under this

appropriation.

Contingentexpenses. Folding materials.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES, NAMELY: For wrapping paper, paste-

board, paste, twine, newspaper wrappers, and other necessary mate-

rials for folding, for the use of Members of the House, and for use

in the Clerk's office and the House folding room, not including enve-

lopes, writing paper,and other paper and materials to be printed and

furnished by the Public Printer, upon requisitions from the Clerk of

the House, under the provisions of the Act approved January twelfth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-five, for the public printing and binding, ten thousand dollars. ·

Fuel and oil.

For fuel and oil for the heating apparatus, thirty-eight thousand

Use forpower plant. dollars, said sum to be also available for use of the power plant

which furnishes heat and light for the Capitol and congressional

Furniture.

buildings.
For furniture, and materials for repairs of the same, twenty thousand dollars.

Packing boxes.

For packing boxes, three thousand five hundred dollars, or so much

thereof as may be necessary.

Miscellaneous items, etc.

For miscellaneous items and expenses of special and select com-

mittees, exclusive of salaries and labor, unless specifically ordered by

the House of Representatives, seventy-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1181

For stationery for Members of the House of Representatives, Delegates from Territories, and Resident Commissioners, including five thousand dollars for stationery for the use of the committees and officers of the House, fifty-four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.
For postage stamps for the Postmaster, two hundred and fifty dollars; for the Clerk, four hundred and fifty dollars ; for the Sergeant at Arms, three hundred dollars ; and for the Doorkeeper, one hundred and fifty dollars ; in all, one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars.

Postage stamps.

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.

Library ofCongress.

General administration: Librarian of Congress, six thousand five hundred dollars ; chief assistant librarian, four thousand dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; Librarian's secretary, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; clerk (assistant to chief clerk) , one thousand dollars ; two stenographers and typewriters, one at one thousand two hundred dollars and one at seven hundred and twenty dollars ; messenger,

Librarian, etc.

eight hundred and forty dollars ; junior messenger, three hundred
and sixty dollars; in all, twenty thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.
Mail and delivery: Assistant in charge, one thousand five hundred

Mailand delivery.

dollars; assistant, nine hundred dollars ; one assistant, seven hundred and twenty dollars; junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, three thousand four hundred and eighty dollars.
Order and accession : Chief of division, two thousand five hundred

Orderand accession.

dollars; assistant,.one thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant, one

thousand two hundred dollars ; three assistants, at nine hundred

dollars each ; two assistants, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two assistants, at six hundred dollars each ; assistant, five hun-

dred and twenty dollars; two junior messengers, at three hundred

and sixty dollars each; in all, eleven thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.

Catalogue, classification, and shelf: Chief of division, three thou- caCtaitoan,laognude,sheclfa.ssifi sand dollars; chief classifier, two thousand dollars; four assistants, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; seven assistants, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; six assistants, at one thousand
four hundred dollars each; twelve assistants, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; six assistants, at one thousand dollars each; fourteen assistants, at nine hundred dollars each ; four assistants, at eight hundred dollars each; thirteen assistants, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; three assistants, at six hundred dollars each ; ten assistants, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; four assistants, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; six junior messengers, at
three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, eighty-seven thousand nine hundred and forty dollars.

Binding: Assistant in charge, one thousand four hundred dollars ; Binding.

assistant, nine hundred dollars ; junior messenger, three hundred and

sixty dollars ; in all, two thousand six hundred and sixty dollars.

Bibliography: Chief of division, three thousand dollars; assistant, Bibliography. one thousand five hundred dollars ; two assistants, at nine hundred

dollars each ; stenographer and typewriter, nine hundred dollars ; assistant, seven hundred and twenty dollars; junior messenger, three

hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, eight thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.

Reading rooms (including evening service) and special collections : Reading rooms.

Superintendent of reading room, three thousand dollars ; two assist-

ants, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; four assistants, at

one thousand two hundred dollars each; five assistants, at nine hun-

1182

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

dred dollars each ; stenographer and typewriter, nine hundred dollars ;

ten assistants, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two

assistants, at six hundred dollars each; attendant, Senate reading

room, nine hundred dollars ; two attendants, Representatives' read-

ing room, one at nine hundred dollars and one at seven hundred and

twenty dollars ; two attendants, cloak rooms, at seven hundred and

twenty dollars each; attendant, Toner Library, nine hundred dollars ;

attendant, Washingtonian Library, nine hundred dollars ; telephone

operator, six hundred dollars ; two attendants (for gallery and

alcoves), at four hundred and eighty dollars each; four junior mes-

sengers , at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; two watchmen, aí

seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; evening service, five assist-

ants, at nine hundred dollars each; fifteen assistants, at seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars each ; two assistants, at six hundred dollars

Periodicals.

each ; in all, fifty-one thousand three hundred dollars.
Periodical (including evening service) : Chief of division, two thousand dollars ; chief assistant, one thousand five hundred dollars ; two

assistants, at nine hundred dollars each ; stenographer and typewriter,

nine hundred dollars ; three assistants, at seven hundred and twenty

dollars each ; two junior messengers, at three hundred and sixty

dollars each ; for arrears of sorting and collating and to enable peri-

odical reading room to be open in the evenings, two assistants, at

seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, ten thousand five

Documents.

hundred and twenty dollars. Documents : Chief of division, three thousand dollars ; assistant,

one thousand four hundred dollars ; stenographer and typewriter,

nine hundred dollars ; assistant, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, six thousand

Manuscript.

three hundred and eighty dollars. Manuscript : Chief of division, three thousand dollars ; chief assist-
ant, one thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant, nine hundred dol-

Maps and charts.

lars; junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, five thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars.
Maps and charts: Chief of division, three thousand dollars; assist-

ant, one thousand four hundred dollars; two assistants, at nine hun-

dred dollars each; assistant, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all , seven

Music.

thousand two hundred and eighty dollars. Music: Chief of division, three thousand dollars ; assistant, one

thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant, one thousand dollars ; two

Prints.

assistants, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, seven thousand three hundred dollars.
Prints: Chief of division, two thousand dollars; assistant, one

thousand four hundred dollars ; two assistants, at nine hundred

dollars each; junior messenger; three hundred and sixty dollars ; in
all, five thousand five hundred and sixty dollars. Smithsonian deposit. Smithsonian deposit : Custodian, one thousand five hundred dol-

lars; assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars; messenger, seven

hundred and twenty dollars; junior messenger, three hundred and

sixty dollars ; in all, three thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars.

Congressional Reference Library.

Congressional Reference Library: Custodian, one thousand five

hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars :

assistant, nine hundred dollars ; assistant, seven hundred and twenty

Law Library.

dollars; two junior messengers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; in all, five thousand and forty dollars..
Law Library: Law librarian, three thousand dollars ; two assistants,

at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; assistant, nine hundred

dollars; assistant, four hundred and eighty dollars ; junior messenger,

three hundred and sixty dollars; assistant for evening service, one thousand five hundred dollars; in all, nine thousand and forty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1183

COPYRIGHT OFFICE, under the direction of the Librarian of Con-
gress: Register of copyrights, four thousand dollars ; assistant register of copyrights; three thousand dollars ; three clerks, at two thousand dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; seven clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; eight clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; ten clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; ten clerks, at one thousand dollars each; sixteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at eight hundred dollars each; ten clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; four clerks, at six hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at four hundred and
eighty dollars each; four junior messengers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each. Arrears, special service : Three clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; porter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; junior messenger, three hundred and sixty dollars ; in all, ninety-five thousand one hundred and eighty dollars.
DISTRIBUTION OF CARD INDEXES : For service in connection with the
distribution of card indexes and other publications of the Library
including not exceeding five hundred dollars for freight charges, expressage, and traveling expenses connected with such distribution, twenty-one thousand eight hundred dollars.

Copyright office. Card indexes.

TEMPORARY SERVICES: For special and temporary service, including extra special services of regular employees, at the discretion of the Librarian, to continue available until expended, two thousand dollars.
CARRIER SERVICE: For service in connection with the Senate and
House Office Buildings, nine hundred and sixty dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
SUNDAY OPENING: To enable the Library of Congress to be kept open for reference use from two until ten o'clock post meridian on Sundays and legal holidays, within the discretion of the Librarian, including the extra services of employees and the services of additional employees under the Librarian, ten thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

Temporary services. Carrier service. Sunday opening.

INCREASE OF LIBRARY OF CONGRESS : For purchase of books for the Library, including payment in advance for subscription books
and society publications, and for freight, commissions, and traveling expenses incidental to the acquisition of books by purchase, gift, or exchange, ninety thousand dollars ;
For purchase of books and for periodicals for the law library, under the direction of the Chief Justice, including payment in advance for subscriptions to law periodicals, three thousand dollars ;
For purchase of new books of reference for the Supreme Court, to

Increase ofLibrary.
Law books. For Supreme Court.

be a part of the Library of Congress, and purchased by the marshal
of the Supreme Court, under the direction of the Chief Justice, two thousand dollars ;

For purchase of miscellaneous periodicals and newspapers, includ- Periodicals.

ing payment in advance for subscriptions to the same, five thousand dollars;

In all, one hundred thousand dollars.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES : For miscellaneous and contingent expenses Contingentexpenses. of the Library, stationery, supplies, and all stock and materials directly purchased, miscellaneous traveling expenses, postage, trans-

portation, and all incidental expenses connected with the administration of the Library and the Copyright Office, which sum shall be

so apportioned as to prevent a deficiency therein, six thousand eight

hundred dollars.

CUSTODY

CARE,

AND

MAINTENANCE

OF

LIBRARY

BUILDING

AND Care of building and grounds.

GROUNDS : Superintendent of the Library building and grounds, five Superintendent, etc.

thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars; clerk, one

thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand dollars; messenger; assistant mes-

1184

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Sunday opening. General expenses. Furniture.

senger ; telephone switchboard operator; assistant telephone switchboard operator; captain of watch, one thousand four hundred dollars ; lieutenant of watch, one thousand dollars ; sixteen watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; carpenter, nine hundred dollars ; painter, nine hundred dollars ; foreman of laborers, nine hundred dollars ; fourteen laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; two attendants in ladies' room, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; four check boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; mistress of charwomen, four hundred and twenty-five dollars ; assistant mistress of charwomen, three hundred dollars; forty-five charwomen; chief engineer, one thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; three assistant engineers, at nine hundred dollars each ; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; machinist, one thousand dollars ; machinist, nine hundred dollars ; two wiremen, at nine hundred dollars each ; plumber, nine hundred dollars ; three elevator conductors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; ten skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, seventy-one thousand seven hundred and five dollars.
For extra services of employees and additional employees under the
superintendent of Library building and grounds to provide for the opening of the Library building from two until ten o'clock post meridian on Sundays and legal holidays, two thousand eight hundred dollars.
For fuel, lights, repairs, miscellaneous supplies, electric and steam apparatus, city directory, stationery, and all incidental expenses in
connection with the custody, care, and maintenance of said building and grounds, including mail and delivery wagon, repair of east driveway pavement, and repair of boiler vaults, eighteen thousand dollars.
For furniture, including partitions, screens, shelving, and electrical work pertaining thereto, twenty thousand dollars.

Botanic Garden.

BOTANIC GARDEN.

Superintendent,etc. For superintendent, one thousand eight hundred dollars.

For assistants and laborers, under the direction of the Joint Library

Repairs and provements.

Committee of Congress, fourteen thousand five hundred and ninety-
three dollars and seventy-five cents. im-
For procuring manure, soil, tools, fuel, purchasing trees, shrubs,
plants, and seeds; and for services, materials, and miscellaneous sup-

plies, and contingent expenses in connection with repairs and improve-

ments to Botanic Gardens, under direction of the Joint Library

Committee of Congress, six thousand five hundred dollars.

Executive.

EXECUTIVE .

Compensation ofthe

President.

For compensation of the President of the United States, seventy-

five thousand dollars.

Compensation ofthe

Vice President.

For compensation of the Vice-President of the United States,

twelve thousand dollars.

Executive office. Secretary, executive

For the following in the office of the President of the United States :

clerk, clerks, etc. Secretary, seven thousand five hundred dollars ; executive clerk, five

thousand dollars ; chief elerk, four thousand dollars ; appointment

clerk, three thousand five hundred dollars ; record clerk, two thousand

five hundred dollars ; two expert stenographers at two thousand five

hundred dollars each; accountant, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

two correspondents, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars

each; disbursing clerk, two thousand dollars ; three clerks, at two

thousand dollars each ; six clerks of class four; two clerks of class

three ; five clerks of class two ; two clerks of class one ; one clerk-mes-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS: SESS. III. . 237. 1911 .

1185

senger, one thousand dollars ; two messengers, at nine hundred dol-
lars each; two messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each;
two laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, seventyone thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars, and the unexpended yeSaarlaarviaeislafbolrepfroersernetbalance ofthe appropriation for salaries in the Executive Office for the orgAanntie,zepd. 4f8o2r.ce. fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven shall be available for expend-
iture during the balance of that year in accordance with the organization of said office as herein provided for on account of the fiscal year Proviso. nineteen hundred and twelve: Provided, That employees of the Execu-. Detail ofemployees.
tive Departments and other establishments of the executive branch of the Government may be detailed from time to time to the office of the President of the United States, for such temporary assistance as may be necessary.
For contingent expenses of the Executive Office, including station- Contingentexpenses. ery therefor, as well as record books, telegrams, telephones, books for library, furniture and carpets for offices, horses, carriages, harness, automobiles, expenses of stable, including labor, and miscellaneous items, to be expended in the discretion of the President, twenty-five thousand dollars.

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

Civil Service Commission.

For

commissioner,

acting

as

president

of the

commission,

four Commissioners, examiners, etc.

thousand five hundred dollars ; two commissioners, at four thousand

dollars each; chief examiner, three thousand dollars ; secretary, two

thousand five hundred dollars; assistant chief examiner, two thou-

sand two hundred and fifty dollars; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; examiner, two thousand four hundred dollars;

three examiners, at two thousand dollars each; four clerks of class

four; four examiners, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ;

twenty clerks of class three; twenty-six clerks of class two; thirty-

five clerks of class one; twenty-nine clerks, at one thousand dollars

each; ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; engineer,

eight hundred and forty dollars; telephone switchboard operator;

two firemen; two watchmen; elevator conductor, seven hundred and

twenty dollars; three laborers; and three messenger boys, at three

hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, two hundred and four thou-

sand five hundred and ten dollars.

FIELD FORCE: For two district secretaries, at two thousand four · FSiecerledtfaorricees., clerks,

hundred dollars each; one district secretary, two thousand two hun- etc.

dred dollars ; four district secretaries at two thousand dollars each;

two district secretaries, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each;

clerk of class four; clerk of class three; clerk of class one; seven clerks, at one thousand dollars each; six, clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each; five clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ;

two clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; messenger;

messenger boy, four hundred and eighty dollars; in all, forty-two

thousand five hundred and sixty dollars.

Rural carrier exam-

RURAL CARRIER EXAMINING BOARD: Chief of division, two thousand ining board.

dollars ; clerk of class three; two clerks of class two; three clerks of

class one; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each; ten clerks, at

nine hundred dollars each; assistant messenger; in all, twenty-two Proviso. thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars : Provided, That no No details from

detail of clerks or other employees from the executive departments oettch.er establishments, or other Government establishments in Washington, District of

Columbia, to the Civil Service Commission, .for the performance of

duty in the District of Columbia, shall be made for or during the Details of employfiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve. The Civil Service Com- ees

mission shall, however, have power in case of emergency to transfer or detail any of its employees herein provided for to or from its office

force, field force, or rural carrier examining board.

1186

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 237. 1911.

Expert examiners, for special subjects.

EXPERT EXAMINERS : For the employment of expert examiners

not in the Federal service to prepare questions and rate papers in

examinations on special subjects for which examiners within the

service are not available, three thousand dollars.

Traveling expenses, For necessary traveling expenses, including those of examiners etc.
'acting under the direction of the commission, and for expenses of
examinations and investigations held elsewhere than at Washington, twelve thousand dollars.

Department ofState.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

Pay of Secretary, Assistants, clerks, etc.

For Secretary of State, twelve thousand dollars ; Assistant Secre-

Pay of Secretary in- tary, five thousand dollars ; Second and Third Assistant Secretaries, at

creased .

four thousand five hundred dollars each; chief clerk, three thousand

dollars; two Assistant Solicitors of the Department of State, to be appointed by the Secretary of State, at three thousand dollars each;

law clerk, and assistant, to be selected and appointed by the Secretary

of State, to edit the laws of Congress and perform such other duties as may be required of them, at two thousand five hundred dollars

TrCahdieefReloaftBiounrse.au of and one thousand five hundred dollars, respectively; Chief of Bureau of Trade Relations, two thousand five hundred dollars ; two chiefs of

bureaus, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each ; five

chiefs of bureaus, at two thousand one hundred dollars each; two translators, at two thousand one hundred dollars each ; additional

to Chief of Bureau of Accounts as disbursing clerk, two hundred dollars ; private secretary to the Secretary, two thousand five hundred

dollars; clerk to the Secretary, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; fifteen clerks of class four; fifteen clerks of class three; twenty-five

clerks of class two ; forty-one clerks of class one, three of whom shall be

telegraph operators ; fifteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; nineteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; chief messenger, one thousand dollars ; five messengers ; twenty-two assistant messengers ; mes-

senger boy, four hundred and twenty dollars; packer, seven hundred
and twenty dollars ; four laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; telephone Emergency services. switchboard operator; assistant telephone switchboard operator; for

emergency clerical services, to be expended by the Secretary of State

in his discretion, two thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be

necessary; in all, two hundred and sixty thousand four hundred

dollars.

Clerks to distribute

information.

For two clerks to be employed in the Department of State and to be

charged with the distribution of information among the diplomatic

missions, one at the rate of one thousand eight hundred dollars per

annum, and one at the rate of one thousand six hundred dollars per

annum ; in all, three thousand four hundred dollars.

Advancing commer. ADVANCEMENT OF COMMERCIAL AND OTHER INTERESTS AS PROVIDED

cial, etc., interests.

inte, p. 119.

IN THE ACT APPROVED AUGUST FIFTH, NINETEEN HUNDRED AND

seDrirveiccteor, ofcocuonnsseulloarr, NINE: Director of the consular service, four thousand five hundred diplomatic officers , dollars; counselor for the Department of State, and resident diploetc.
matic officer, each at seven thousand five hundred dollars, and to be

appointed by the Secretary of State in accordance with the provisions

of the Act approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine ; eight

officers to aid in important drafting work, four at four thousand five

hundred dollars each and four at three thousand dollars each, to be

Employment.

appointed by the Secretary of State in accordance with the Act approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, and to be employed

upon tariff, treaty, and trade relations and negotiations, any one of

whom may be employed as chief of division of far eastern, Latin

American, near eastern, or European affairs, or upon other work in clAesrskis,stetacn.t solicitor, connection with foreign relations; assistant solicitor, three thousand
dollars ; law clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; one clerk of

· SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. í. 237. 1911.

1187 .

class four; three clerks of class three; two clerks of class one; three
clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; three assistant messengers ; for Rent.
rent of rooms outside of Department of the State to accommodate the Bureau of Trade Relations and the Bureau of Accounts or other Expenses of treaty offices, not to exceed five thousand five hundred dollars ; for meeting and trade relations,

occasional and unforeseen expenses arising in connection with foreign etc. trade relations which come within the jurisdiction of the Department of State under tariff legislation and otherwise, and in the negotiation

and preparation of treaties, arrangements, and agreements for the advancement of commercial and other interests, including the appoint-

ment of necessary employees at the seat of government or elsewhere, to be selected and compensated under the provisions of the said Act
of August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, twenty-five thousand three hundred and forty dollars ; in all, one hundred thousand dollars.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES, DEPARTMENT OF STATE: For stationery, Contingent expenses.
furniture, fixtures, typewriters, including the exchange of the same,

repairs, and material for repairs, fourteen thousand dollars. For books and maps, and periodicals, domestic and foreign, includ-
ing the payment in advance for subscriptions to the same, for the library, two thousand dollars.

Library.

For services of lithographer and necessary materials for the lithographic press, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For miscellaneous expenses, including the purchase, care, and subsistence of horses, to be used only for official purposes, repair of wagons, carriages, and harness, rent of stable, telegraph and electrical apparatus and repairs to the same, and other items not included in the foregoing, eight thousand dollars.

Lithographing. Miscellaneous.

For rent of building in the District of Columbia for the use of the Rent. Department of State, three thousand dollars.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT. ·

meTnrtea. sury Depart-

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY: Secretary of the Treasury, twelve PayofSecretary, As- sistants, clerks, etc. thousand dollars ; three Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury, at five
thousand dollars each; clerk to the Secretary, two thousand five hundred dollars ; executive clerk, two thousand four hundred dollars ; stenographer, one thousand eight hundred dollars; three private .
secretaries, one to each Assistant Secretary, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; Government actuary, under control of the
Treasury, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; clerk of class four; four clerks of class three; two clerks of class two; chief messenger, one thousand one hundred dollars; assistant chief mes-
senger, one thousand dollars ; three messengers, at nine hundred
dollars each; four messengers ; in all sixty thousand five hundred and ten dollars.
Chief clerk. Office of chief clerk and superintendent: Chief clerk, including Made chief execu-
three hundred dollars as superintendent of Treasury building, who shall etticv.e officer; powers, be the chief executive officer of the department and who may be designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to sign official papers and documents during the temporary absence of the Secretary and the assistant secretaries of the department, four thousand dollars ; assistant superintendent of Treasury building, two thousand five Clerks, etc. hundred dollars; four clerks of class four (one transferred to Supervising Architect's office) ; clerk of class three (three transferred to Supervising Architect's office) ; two clerks of class two (one transferred to Supervising Architect's office) ; two clerks of class one ; clerk, one thousand dollars ; clerk, nine hundred dollars; two messengers;
three assistant messengers; one messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; storekeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars; telegraph operator, one thousand two hundred dollars ; telephone operator and assistant telegraph operator, one thousand two hundred

1188

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Engineers, etc.

dollars ; chief engineer, one thousand four hundred dollars; three assistant engineers, at one. thousand dollars each; eight elevator
conductors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each, and the use of

laborers as relief elevator conductors during rush hours is authorized ; three firemen; five firemen, at six hundred and sixty dollars each;

Watchmen .

coal passer, five hundred dollars ; locksmith and electrician, one thousand four hundred dollars ; captain of the watch, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two lieutenants of the watch, at nine hundred

Laborers.

dollars each; sixty-six watchmen ; foreman of laborers, one thousand dollars ; two skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; two skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; wire-

man, one thousand dollars ; wireman, nine hundred dollars ; thirty-

Winder Building.

four laborers ; ten laborers, at five hundred dollars each; plumber, one thousand one hundred dollars ; painter, one thousand one hundred dollars; ninety-one charwomen. (including sixteen transferred from Treasurer's office) ; four cabinetmakers, at one thousand dollars each; cabinetmaker, seven hundred and twenty dollars. For the Winder Building: Engineer, one thousand dollars; three firemen; conductor

of elevator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; four watchmen; three

Cox Building.

laborers, one of whom, when necessary, shall assist and relieve the conductor of elevator ; laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; and eight charwomen. For the Cox Building, seventeen hundred and nine New York avenue : Three watchmen-firemen, at seven hundred

and twenty dollars each; and one laborer ; in all, one hundred and

seventy-four thousand six hundred and twenty dollars.

Generalsupply com-

mittee.

General Supply Committee: Superintendent of supplies, two thou-

sand dollars, and two clerks of class two ;. in all, four thousand eight

hundred dollars. WaBroroaknkteseDpiivnigsiona.nd Division of Bookkeeping and Warrants : Chief of division, three

thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant chief of division, two thou-

sand seven hundred dollars ; estimate and digest clerk, two thousand

five hundred dollars ; two principal bookkeepers, at two thousand

Customs Division.

one hundred dollars each; twelve bookkeepers, at two thousand dollars each ; fourteen clerks of class four ; six clerks of class three : six clerks of class two ; four clerks of class one; messenger ; three assistant messengers ; in all, eighty-seven thousand nine hundred dollars.
Division of Customs: Chief of division, four thousand dollars ;

assistant chief of division, three thousand dollars ; seven law clerks, five at two thousand five hundred dollars each and two at two thou-

sand dollars each; three clerks of class four ; two clerks of class three ; one clerk of class two ; five clerks of class one ; five clerks, at one thou-

sand dollars each ; messenger ; assistant messenger; in all, forty-six

viAspiopno.intments

thousand and sixty dollars. Di- Division of Appointments: Chief of division, three thousand dol-
lars ; assistant chief of division; two thousand dollars; executive clerk, two thousand dollars ; law and bond clerk, two thousand dollars ; three clerks of class four ; four. clerks of class three; five clerks of class

two; six clerks of class one ; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each ;

clerk, nine hundred dollars ; messenger; two assistant messengers ; in

all, forty-two thousand one hundred and eighty dollars.

Public Moneys Division.

Division of Public Moneys : Chief of division, three thousand dol-

lars ; assistant chief of division, two thousand dollars ; five clerks of

class four; four clerks of class three ; four clerks of class two; clerk of

class one ; clerk, one thousand dollars ; clerk, nine hundred dollars ;

messenger; assistant messenger; in all, thirty thousand six hundred

Loansand Currency and sixty dollars.

Division.

Division of Loans and Currency : Chief of division, three thousand

five hundred dollars ; assistant chief of division, two thousand seven

hundred dollars; four clerks of class four ; one clerk of class three;

two clerks of class two ; three clerks of class one ; one clerk, one thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS.. SESS. III. . 237. 1911 .

1189

sand dollars ; eighteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; twelve

expert money counters, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; messenger; two assistant messengers; eight laborers; custodian of

paper, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; in all, fifty-seven

thousand and fifty dollars.

Revenue- Cutter

Division of Revenue-Cutter Service: Assistant chief of division, two serviceDivision.

thousand four hundred dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand dollars; one

clerk of class four; law and contract clerk, one thousand eight hundred

dollars; four clerks of class three; one clerk of class two ; three clerks

of class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; three clerks,

at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; laborer; in all, twenty-

seven thousand six hundred dollars.

Division ofPrinting and Stationery :

Chief of division,

two thousand

Printing and tonery Division.

Sta-

five hundred dollars ; assistant chief of division, two thousand dollars;

four clerks of class four; three clerks of class three; three clerks of

class two; bookbinder, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; three clerks of class one; clerk, one thousand dollars ; clerk, nine hun-

dred dollars; three messengers; assistant messenger; two laborers ;

messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, thirty-two

thousand three hundred and seventy dollars.

Malls and Files Di-

Division of Mail and Files: Chief of division, two thousand five vision..

hundred dollars; registered mail and bond clerk, one thousand eight

hundred dollars; five clerks of class two ; additional to one clerk of

class two, in charge of documents, two hundred dollars ; two clerks of class one; mail messenger, one thousand two hundred dollars; six

clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each; two assistant messengers ; assistant to document clerk,

eight hundred and forty dollars; messenger boy, three hundred and

sixty dollars; in all, twenty-five thousand five hundred and forty dollars.

Division of Special Agents: Assistant chief of division, two thousand Special Agents DIfour hundred dollars ; clerk of class three; clerk of class two ; four

clerks of class one; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; in all, twelve thousand eight hundred and forty dollars.
Office of disbursing clerk: Disbursing clerk, three thousand dollars; deDpiustbyu,resticn.g clerk,

deputy disbursing clerk, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; two clerks of class four; one clerk of class three; one clerk of class two; one clerk of class one; clerk, one thousand dollars ; messenger; in all, fifteen thousand three hundred and ninety dollars.
OFFICE OF THE SUPERVISING ARCHITECT : Supervising Architect, tescut,pseurpveirsintgenAdrecnhtis, five thousand dollars ; executive officer, three thousand two hundred clerks, etc. and fifty dollars; superintendent of drafting and constructing division, Post, p. 1386.

three thousand dollars; superintendent of computing division, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; chief of law and records division, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; chief of accounts division, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief of inspection division, two thousand five hundred dollars ; chief of division of

equipment, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief mechanical and electrical engineer, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; inspector of furniture and other furnishings, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant inspector of furniture and other furnishings, one thousand six hundred dollars ; six clerks of class four; six clerks of class three; four clerks of class two ; one clerk of class one; contract clerk, two thousand dollars; foreman duplicating gallery, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; four technical clerks, who shall also

be skilled stenographers and typewriters, at one thousand eight hun-

dred dollars each; four inspectors, at two thousand one hundred and

ninety dollars each; inspector, one thousand eight hundred dollars;

transferred

five messengers; assistant messenger; one laborer; for the following frFoomrc·echief clerk's

force transferred from the office of chief clerk and superintendent: office.

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-77

1190

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

Inspector of electric-light plants, gas, and fixtures for all public

buildings under the control of the Treasury Department, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant inspector of electriclight plants and draftsman, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one clerk of class four ; additional to one clerk of class four as book-

keeper, one hundred dollars ; three clerks of class three; one clerk of

class two ; in all, ninety-seven thousand five hundred and ninety dollars . Comptroller's office. OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY: Comptroller of the

Treasury, six thousand dollars ; Assistant Comptroller of the Treasury, four thousand five hundred dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; chief law clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

ten law clerks revising accounts and briefing opinions, one at two thousand one hundred dollars and nine at two thousand dollars each ;

six expert accountants, at two thousand dollars each; private secretary, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; eight clerks of class four ; three clerks of class three ; one clerk of class two ; stenographer

and typewriter, one thousand four hundred dollars ; typewriter-

copyist, one thousand dollars ; two messengers ; assistant messenger;

and two laborers; in all, seventy-six thousand one hundred and

twenty dollars.

Deputy auditors

abolished.

The position of deputy auditor authorized in the offices of the six

auditors of the Treasury for the several executive departments and

other Government establishments are hereby abolished to take effect Transfer of duties. on and after July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, and on and after

said date the duties and powers theretofore exercised by law by said

Exception. Post,p. 1191.

deputy auditors shall be exercised by the chief clerk and chief of division in each of said auditor's offices except in the office of the Auditor for the Post Office Department, where such duties and

powers shall be exercised by the assistant and chief clerk.

Office of Auditor for Treasury Department.

OFFICE OF AUDITOR FOR TREASURY DEPARTMENT: Auditor, four

thousand dollars ; chief clerk and chief of division, two thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars ; three chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each ; eighteen clerks of

class four; fifteen clerks of class three ; thirteen clerks of class two; thirty-three clerks of class one ; fourteen clerks, at one thousand

dollars each ; six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; three assistant

messengers ; four laborers; in all, one hunderd and fifty-two thousand

six hundred and fifty dollars.

Office of Auditor for War Department.

OFFICE OF AUDITOR FOR WAR DEPARTMENT: Auditor, four thou-

sand dollars; chief clerk and chief of division, two thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars ; three

chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each ; twenty-four clerks

of class four; fifty clerks of class three ; seventy-two clerks of class two; fifty-two clerks of class one ; nineteen clerks, at one thousand

dollars each; five clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; skilled laborer, nine hundred dollars; messenger; five assistant messengers; and

eleven laborers ; in all, three hundred and thirty-six thousand seven

hundred and fifty dollars.

Office of Auditor for Navy Department.

OFFICE OF AUDITOR FOR NAVY DEPARTMENT: Auditor, four thou-

sand dollars ; chief clerk and chief of division, two thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars ; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; eleven clerks of class four ;

twenty clerks of class three ; sixteen clerks of class two ; twenty-three clerks of class one; eleven clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; messenger; assistant messenger;

and three laborers ; in all, one hundred and thirty-seven thousand

five hundred and ninety dollars.

Office ofAuditor for Interior Department.

OFFICE OF AUDITOR FOR INTERIOR DEPARTMENT: Auditor, four

thousand dollars ; chief clerk and chief of division, two thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars ; two

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1191

chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; fourteen clerks of
class four; sixteen clerks of class three; twenty-nine clerks of class two; twenty-nine clerks of class one ; thirteen clerks, at one thousand
dollars each ; one clerk, nine hundred dollars ; two messengers; three assistant messengers ; one laborer; in all, one hundred and fifty-six thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars.
OFFICE OF AUDITOR FORSTATE AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS: Auditor, StOafftiece, oeftAc.u,diDteoprafrotrfour thousand dollars ; chief clerk and chief of division, two thousand ments.' two hundred and fifty dollars; law clerk, two thousand dollars; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; sixteen clerks of class four; clerk of class four (special examiner) ; seventeen clerks of class three; thirteen clerks of class two; thirteen clerks of class one;. five clerks, at one thousand dollars each; six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; " one messenger; two assistant messengers; three laborers; in all, one hundred and eighteen thousand five hundred and ten dollars.
OFFICE OF AUDITOR FOR POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT: Auditor, five Office of Auditorfor Post Office Departthousand dollars ; assistant and chief clerk, three thousand dollars; ment. law clerk, three thousand dollars ; expert accountant, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; four chiefs of division, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each; four assistant chiefs of
division, at two thousand dollars each; four principal bookkeepers, at two thousand dollars each; thirty-five clerks of class four; sixtynine clerks of class three; eighty-two clerks of class two ; one hundred and seven clerks of class one; fifty-eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; two skilled laborers, at one thousand dollars each; fiftyfive clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; fifteen money-order assorters, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; twenty-five money-order assorters, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each; eighty-four money-order assorters, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; fifty-nine money-order assorters, at six hundred and sixty dollars
each ; two female laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; two messengers; six skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; three assistant messengers; eight skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; four messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; five messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; twelve male laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ; forewoman, four hundred and eighty dollars; and twentyone charwomen; in all, seven hundred and twenty-nine thousand four hundred and ninety dollars.
OFFICE OF THE TREASURER: Treasurer of the United States, eight Treasurer's office. thousand dollars ; Assistant Treasurer, three thousand six hundred
dollars; Deputy Assistant Treasurer, three thousand two hundred dollars ; cashier, three thousand six hundred dollars; assistant cashier, three thousand dollars;. chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; seven chiefs of division, at two thousand five hundred
dollars each; two assistant chiefs of division, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each; vault clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; principal bookkeeper, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant bookkeeper, two thousand one hundred dollars; two tellers, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; two assistant tellers, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each; vault clerk, Bond Division, two thousand dollars ; clerk for the Treasurer, one thousand eight hundred dollars; twenty-four clerks of class four; nineteen clerks of class three; fifteen clerks of class two ; coin clerk, one thousand four hundered dollars; thirty-five clerks of class one; nineteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each; twenty-six clerks, at ' nine hundred dollars each; twenty-nine expert counters, at nine hundred dollars each ; fifteen expert counters, at eight hundred dollars each; forty expert counters, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ;

1192

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

seventeen expert counters, at seven hundred dollars each ; mail mes-

senger, eight hundred and forty dollars; eight messengers ; seven assistant messengers ; twenty-three laborers ; six messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; compositor and pressman,
one thousand six hundred dollars ; pressman, one thousand four hundred dollars ; silver piler, one thousand dollars ; in all, three hundred and fifty-nine thousand four hundred and forty dollars. tioRneadlecmuprtrieonncyo. f na For the force employed in redeeming the national currency (to be reimbursed by the national banks) , namely: Superintendent, three
thousand five hundred dollars ; teller, two thousand five hundred

dollars; bookkeeper, two thousand four hundred dollars ; assistant

teller, two thousand dollars ; assistant bookkeeper, two thousand dollars ; five clerks of class four ; seven clerks of class three ; nine

clerks of class two; twenty-five clerks of class one ; ten expert

counters , at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; fifty-two expert

counters, at one thousand dollars each ; forty-two expert counters, at nine hundred dollars each ; thirty-two expert counters, at eight hundred dollars each ; nineteen expert counters, at seven hundred dollars

each; two messengers ; four assistant messengers; four charwomen ;

in all, two hundred and twenty-one thousand four hundred and twenty

dollars .

Repairs to canceling, etc., machines.

For repairs to canceling and cutting machines in the office of the

Treasurer of the United States, two hundred dollars.
Register's office. OFFICE OF THE REGISTER OF THE TREASURY: Register, four

thousand dollars; Assistant Register, two thousand five hundred dollars; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each ; four

clerks of class four; six clerks of class three; five clerks of class two ;

nine clerks of class one; five clerks, at one thousand dollars each ;

eighteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; one clerk, assorter of canceled bonds for binding, eight hundred dollars ; messenger; two

assistant messengers ; and two laborers ; in all, seventy thousand seven

hundred dollars.

Office of Comptroller ofthe Currency.

OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY: Comptroller of

the Currency, five thousand dollars ; Deputy Comptroller, three

thousand five hundred dollars; Deputy Comptroller, three thousand

dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief of

division, two thousand five hundred dollars ; two chiefs of division, at

two thousand two hundred dollars each ; bookkeeper, two thousand

C dollars ; assistant bookkeeper, two thousand dollars; eight clerks of class four; additional to bond clerk, two hundred dollars ; stenog-

rapher, one thousand six hundred dollars ; thirteen clerks of class three ; thirteen clerks of class two ; twenty-six clerks of class one ;

thirteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; seven clerks, at nine

hundred dollars each ; six counters, at eight hundred and forty dollars

each ; messenger ; five assistant messengers ; three laborers; and two

messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; in all, one

hundred and forty-two thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.

National currency

expenses.

For expenses of the national currency (to be reimbursed by the

national banks) , namely : Superintendent, two thousand five hundred

dollars ; teller, two thousand dollars ; clerk of class four ; clerk of class three; four clerks of class two ; five clerks of class one; four clerks, at

one thousand dollars each ; engineer, one thousand dollars ; five clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; seven expert counters, at eight hundred

and forty dollars each ; three counters, at seven hundred dollars each ;

assistant messenger; fireman; messenger boy, three hundred and

sixty dollars ; in all, thirty-eight thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.

Special examina-

tions, etc.

For expenses of special examinations of national banks, of keeping

macerator in Treasury Building in repair, and for other incidental

expenses attending the working of the macerator, and for procuring

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 . 1

1193

information relative to banks other than national, four thousand eight hundred dollars.
OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE: Commis- slOofnfeirce ooff CInotmemrinsa-l
sioner of Internal Revenue, six thousand dollars ; deputy commis- Revenue. sioner, four thousand dollars ; deputy commissioner, three thousand six hundred dollars ; chemist, two thousand five hundred dollars; first assistant chemist, one thousand eight hundred dollars; second assistant chemist, one thousand six hundred dollars; third assistant chemist, one thousand four hundred dollars; three heads of divisions, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; six heads of divisions, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each ; superintendent of stamp vault, two thousand dollars; two clerks, at two thousand dollars each; private secretary, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; twenty-eight clerks of class four; twenty-four clerks of class three;
thirty-seven clerks of class two ; thirty-seven clerks of class one; thirty-two clerks, at one thousand dollars each; forty-two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; three messengers ; twenty-one assistant messengers ; and sixteen laborers; in all, three hundred and thirtytwo thousand seven hundred dollars.

For the following, formerly authorized and paid from appropria- emDpelnoayteuerse. d tion for "withdrawal of denatured alcohol," namely: Chief chemist, three thousand dollars ; first assistant chemist, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one clerk of class four; one clerk of class three ; four clerks of class two; three clerks of class one; one messenger; in all,
eighteen thousand two hundred and forty dollars.

alcohol

For stamp agent, one thousand six hundred dollars ; stamp agent, Stamp agents. nine hundred dollars ; counter, nine hundred dollars; in all, three

thousand four hundred dollars, the same to be reimbursed by the stamp manufacturers.

OFFICE OF LIFE-SAVING SERVICE: General Superintendent of Life-Saving Service. the Life-Saving Service, four thousand dollars, and five hundred dollars additional while the office is held by the present incumbent;

assistant general superintendent, two thousand five hundred dollars;

principal clerk, two thousand dollars ; title and contract clerk, two

thousand dollars; topographer and hydrographer, one thousand eight hundred dollars; civil engineer, one thousand eight hundred · dollars; draftsman, one thousand five hundred dollars ; three clerks

of class four; five clerks of class three; four clerks of class two ; five

clerks of class one; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; assistant messenger;

laborer ; in all, forty-eight thousand one hundred and twenty dollars. Bureau of Engrav BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING: Director, six thousand ingand Printing.

dollars; assistant director, three thousand five hundred dollars ; chief

of division of assignments and reviews, three thousand dollars; chief

clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; stenographer, one thousand

eight hundred dollars ; clerk of class four ; six clerks of class three; nine clerks of class two ; nine clerks of class one ; eight clerks, at one

thousand dollars each; disbursing agent, two thousand four hundred dollars ; storekeeper, one thousand six hundred dollars; assistant

storekeeper, one thousand dollars ; clerk in charge of purchases and

supplies, two thousand dollars ; ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; six clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; sixteen

clerks, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each; nine attendants, at

six hundred dollars each; two helpers, at nine hundred dollars each;

two helpers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two helpers, at six hundred dollars each ; three messengers ; seven assistant mes-

sengers ; captain of the watch, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

two lieutenants of the watch, at nine hundred dollars each; forty-six

watchmen; two forewomen of charwomen, at five hundred and forty

dollars each ; nineteen day charwomen, at four hundred dollars each;

1194

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

fifty-two morning and evening charwomen, at three hundred dollars

each; foreman of laborers, nine hundred dollars ; four laborers ; sev-

enty-five laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; in all, two meLnitmiftoartsieornviocnes.pay- hundred and fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty dollars ; and no
other fund appropriated by this or any other Act shall be used for

services, in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, of the character

specified in this paragraph, except in cases of emergency arising after

the passage of this Act, and then only on the written approval of the

Secret Service Divi- Secretary of the Treasury.

sion.

SECRET SERVICE DIVISION: Chief, four thousand dollars ; assistant

chief, who shall discharge the duties of chief clerk, three thousand

dollars ; clerk of class four ; clerk of class three; two clerks of class

two ; clerk of class one ; clerk, one thousand dollars ; assistant mes-

senger; in all, sixteen thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.

Office of Director of the Mint.

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE MINT: Director, five thousand

dollars ; examiner, three thousand dollars; computer, two thousand

five hundred dollars ; assayer, two thousand two hundred dollars ;

adjuster of accounts, two thousand five hundred dollars; two clerks

of class four; private secretary, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two clerks of class three ; two clerks of class one; messenger; assistant

in laboratory, one thousand two hundred dollars; assistant messen-

ger; skilled laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; in all, twenty-

nine thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.

Freight.

For freight on bullion and coin, by registered mail or otherwise,

between mints and assay offices, fifty thousand dollars. Contingentexpenses. For contingent expenses of the Bureau of the Mint, to be expended

under the direction of the Director, namely: For assay laboratory,

chemicals, fuel, materials, balances, weights, and other necessaries,

including textbooks on metallurgical processes, six hundred dollars. Examinations, etc. For examinations of mints, expense in visiting mints for the pur-

Books, etc.
Precious statistics.

pose of superintending the annual settlements, and for special examinations, three thousand five hundred dollars.
For books, pamphlets, periodicals, specimens of coins, ores, and incidentals, two hundred dollars. metals For the collection of statistics relative to the annual production and consumption of the precious metals in the United States, one thousand dollars.

Public Health and OFFICE OF SURGEON GENERAL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND MARINE-

Marine-Hospital Serv- HOSPITAL SERVICE: Surgeon General, five thousand dollars ; chief

clerk, two thousand dollars ; three clerks of class four; two clerks of

class three; private secretary to the Surgeon General, one thousand

eight hundred dollars; six clerks of class two, one of whom shall be

translator ; seven clerks of class one ; three clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each; messenger; three assistant messengers ; two laborers,

at five hundred and forty dollars each; in all, forty thousand nine

hundred and eighty dollars. Contingent expenses. CONTINGENT EXPENSES, TREASURY DEPARTMENT: For the follow-

ing sums, which shall be so apportioned as to prevent deficiencies

Stationery.

therein, namely: For stationery for the Treasury Department and its several bureaus

Additional , de- and offices, fifty thousand dollars , and in addition thereto sums bdurcetaeuds,fertoc.m offices, amounting to eighty-six thousand one hundred and fifty dollars shall
be deducted from other appropriations made for the fiscal year nine-

teen hundred and twelve as follows: Contingent expenses, Independ-

ent Treasury, seven thousand two hundred dollars ; contingent expenses, mint at Philadelphia, five hundred dollars; contingent expenses, mint at San Francisco, three hundred dollars; contingent

expenses, mint at Denver, three hundred dollars ; contingent expenses, assay office at New York, five hundred dollars; materials and miscellaneous expenses, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, three thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1195

sand three hundred dollars; suppressing counterfeiting and other

crimes, four hundred dollars ; expenses of Revenue- Cutter Service, two thousand one hundred dollars ; Public Health and Marine-

Hospital Service, one thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars ; Quarantine Service, five hundred and ninety dollars ; preventing the

spread of epidemic diseases, two hundred and sixty dollars ; LifeSaving Service, one thousand four hundred dollars ; fuel, lights, and water for public buildings, four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; general expenses of public buildings, three thousand five hundred and fifty dollars; collecting the revenue from customs, thirty-seven thousand three hundred dollars ; miscellaneous expenses of collecting internal revenue, eighteen thousand seven hundred dol-

lars ; and for expenses of collecting the corporation tax, three thou-

sand one hundred and fifty dollars ; and said sums so deducted shall be credited to and constitute, together with the first-named sum of fifty thousand dollars, the total appropriation for stationery for the Treas-

ury Department and its several bureaus and offices for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.
Hereafter the purchase of stationery for the Internal-Revenue Serv- naPlu-rRcehvaesneusefSoerrIvnitceer.ice shall be made under the direction of the Secretary of the Treas-
ury as in the case of other branches of the public service under tho Treasury Department. . For postage required to prepay matter addressed to Postal Union Postage.

countries, and for postage forthe Treasury Department, one thousand two hundred dollars.
. For newspapers, newspaper clippings, law books, city directories; Newspapers, etc.

and other books of reference relating to the business of the department, one thousand dollars.
For investigation of accounts and records, and to secure better obItnavinebsettitegraatdimionnitso methods of administration, with a view to greater economy in the trative methods. expenditure of public money, including necessary traveling expenses, in connection with special work, or obtaining of better administrative methods in any branch of the service within or under the Treasury Department, including the temporary employment of agents, stenographers, accountants, or other expert services either within or without the District of Columbia, seventy-five thousand dollars.
For freight, expressage, telegraph and telephone service, seven thou- Freight, etc. sand dollars.

For rent of buildings, fifty-two thousand four hundred and eightysix dollars.
For purchase and exchange of horses and wagons, for office and mail service, to be used only for official purposes, care and subsistence of horses, including shoeing, and of wagons, harness, and repairs of the same, three thousand five hundred dollars.
For purchase of file holders and file cases, six thousand dollars.

Rent. Horses and wagons.
Files.

For purchase of coal, wood, engine oils and grease, grates, grate baskets and fixtures, blowers, coal hods, coal shovels, pokers, and tongs, eleven thousand dollars.
For purchase ofgas, electric current for lighting and power purposes, gas and electric-light fixtures, electric-light wiring and material,
candles, candlesticks, droplights and tubing, gas burners, gas torches, globes, lanterns, and wicks, seventeen thousand dollars."
For washing and hemming towels, for the purchase of awnings.and fixtures, window shades and fixtures, alcohol, benzine, turpentine,
varnish,,baskets, belting, bellows, bowls, brooms, buckets, brushes, canvas, crash, cloth; chamois skins, cotton waste, door and window fasteners, dusters ; flower-garden, street, and engine hose; lace leather, lye, nails, oils, plants, picks, pitchers, powders, stencil plates, hand stamps, and repairs of same, stamp ink, spittoons, soap, matches, match safes, sponges, tacks, traps, thermometers, toilet paper, tools,

Fuel, etc. Lighting.
Miscellaneous.

1196

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

towels, towel racks, tumblers, wire, zinc, and for blacksmithing,

repairs of machinery, removal of rubbish, sharpening tools, advertising for proposals, and for sales at public auction in Washington,

District of Columbia, of condemned property belonging to the

Treasury Department, payment of auctioneer fees, and purchase of

other absolutely necessary articles, eleven thousand five hundred

dollars.

Labor-saving machines.

For purchase of labor-saving machines, six thousand dollars.

Transferring files, For shelving and transferring records and files from and to the

etc.

Treasury building and its annexes in Washington, five hundred

dollars .

Numbering machines, etc.

For purchase and exchange of registering accountants, numbering

machines, and other machines of a similar character, including time

stamps for stamping date of receipt of official mail and telegrams, and

Carpets, etc.

repairs thereto, three thousand five hundred dollars. For purchase of carpets, carpet border and lining, linoleum, mats,

Furniture.

rugs, matting, and repairs, and for cleaning, cutting, making, laying, and relaying of the same, by contract, four thousand dollars.
For purchase of boxes, book rests, chairs, chair caning, chair covers, desks, bookcases, clocks, cloth for covering desks, cushions, leather

for covering chairs and sofas, locks, lumber, screens, tables, ventilators, typewriters, including the exchange of same, wardrobe cabinets,

washstands, water coolers and stands, and for replacing other worn

and unserviceable articles, ten thousand dollars.

Automatic fire

alarm.

For maintenance of the automatic fire-alarm system now in the

Treasury and Winder buildings, two thousand one hundred and sixty-

six dollars.

Auditor for Post Office Department.

CONTINGENT AND MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES, OFFICE OF AUDITOR

Contingentexpenses. FOR THE POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, NAMELY: For miscellaneous

items, including purchase, repair, and exchange of typewriting machines, of which not exceeding three hundred and seventy-five

dollars may be used for rental of telephones, and not exceeding three

hundred dollars may be used for the purchase of law books, books of reference, and city directories, four thousand dollars ;

Adding machines.

For furniture and repairs, two thousand dollars ; For purchase, exchange, and repair of adding machines, six thou-

sand dollars ;

In all, twelve thousand dollars, to be expended under the direction

of the Auditor for the Post Office Department under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Collecting internal revenue..

COLLECTING INTERNAL REVENUE.

Collectors, etc.

For salaries and expenses of collectors of internal revenue, and

deputy collectors, and surveyors, and clerks, messengers, and janitors

in internal-revenue offices, two million one hundred and fifty thousand UPrsoevifsoor.witness fees dollars : Provided, That no part of this amount be used in defraying the

forbidden.

expenses of any officer, designated above, subpoenaed by the United

States courts to attend any trial before a United States court or pre-

Post, p. 1426.

liminary examination before any United States commissioner, which expenses shall be paid""from the appropriation for "Fees of witnesses, United States courts.'

Agents,gaugers,etc. For salaries and expenses of forty revenue agents provided for by

law, and fees and expenses of gaugers, salaries and expenses of store-

Miscellaneous. Ante, p. 1195.

keepers and storekeeper-gaugers, two million five hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
For rent of offices outside of the District of Columbia, telephone service, and other miscellaneous expenses incident to the collection of

internal revenue, and for the purchase of necessary books of reference

and periodicals for the chemical laboratory and law library, at a cost

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS: III. CH. 237. 1911.

1197

not to exceed five hundred dollars, and reasonable expenses for not . exceeding sixty days immediately following the injury of field officers · or employees in the internal-revenue service while în line of duty, of
medical attendance, surgeon's and hospital bills made necessary by
reason of such injury, and for horses crippled or killed while being
used by officers in making raids, not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars for any horse so crippled or killed , one hundred thousand dollars.
For expenses of collecting the corporation tax authorized by the tiCoonltlaexc.ting corpora Act approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, "to provide Ante, p. 112 revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the United Ante, p. 1195.
States, and for other purposes," one hundred thousand dollars. For classifying, indexing, exhibiting, and properly caring for the raCtaiorne,reettcu.r, nosf. corpo-
returns of all corporations required by section thirty-eight of an Ante,p. 114. Act entitled An "Act to provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the United States, and for other purposes,'"" approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, including the employment in the District of Columbia of such clerical and other
personal services and for rent of such quarters as may be necessary, Proviso. twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That any and all such re- Regulation of inturns shall be open to inspection only upon the order of the Presi- spection. dent, under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury and approved by the President.

INDEPENDENT TREASURY.

Independent Treas ury.

OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT BALTIMORE : Assistant treas- Assistanttreasurers' offices. urer, four thousand five hundred dollars ; cashier, two thousand five Baltimore. hundred dollars; three clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars

each; two clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; four

clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; bookkeeper and three clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; five clerks,

at one thousand dollars each; messenger, at eight hundred and forty dollars ; three watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each;

in all, thirty-four thousand dollars.

OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT BOSTON: Assistant treasurer, Boston.

five thousand dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars;

paying teller, two thousand five hundred dollars ; receiving teller, two . thousand dollars; assistant paying teller, two thousand two hundred

dollars; vault clerk, two thousand dollars; assistant receiving teller,

one thousand seven hundred dollars ; two bookkeepers, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; two specie clerks, at one thousand six

hundred and fifty dollars each; money clerk, one thousand five hun-

dred dollars; redemption clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars; three clerks, at one thou-

sand two hundred dollars each ; clerk, one thousand one hundred

dollars; seven clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; clerk, eight hun-

dred dollars; messenger and chief watchman, one thousand and sixty

dollars ; stenographer and typewriter, one thousand dollars ; three

watchmen and janitors, at eight hundred and fifty dollars each ; in all, forty-six thousand and ten dollars.

OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT CHICAGO: Assistant treasurer, Chicago.

five thousand dollars; cashier, three thousand dollars; vault clerk ,

two thousand dollars; paying teller, two thousand dollars ; assorting

teller, one thousand eight hundred dollars; silver and redemption

teller, change teller, and receiving teller, at two thousand dollars each ; clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; bookkeeper, one thousand

eight hundred dollars ; two bookkeepers, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; assistant paying feller, one thousand six hundred

dollars; chief coin, coupon, and currency clerk; one thousand seven

1198 Cincinnati. New Orleans. New York.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. . 237. 1911.
hundred and fifty dollars ; three coin, coupon, and currency clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; six clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; twenty clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; detective and hall man, one thousand one hundred
dollars ; messenger, eight hundred and forty dollars ; stenographer, nine hundred dollars ; janitor, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; three watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, seventy-two thousand seven hundred and seventy dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT CINCINNATI: Assistant treas-
urer, four thousand five hundred dollars ; cashier, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant cashier, one thousand eight
hundred dollars ; bookkeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; receiving teller, one thousand five hundred dollars ; vault clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; five clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand dollars each;
clerk and stenographer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; clerk and watchman, eight hundred and forty dollars ; night watchman, six hundred dollars ; day watchman, six hundred dollars ; in all, twentyfour thousand four hundred and ten dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT NEW ORLEANS: Assistant
treasurer, four thousand five hundred dollars ; chief clerk and cashier, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; receiving teller, and paying teller, at two thousand dollars each ; vault clerk; one thousand eight hundred dollars; two bookkeepers, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; coin clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; six clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at
one thousand dollars each ; porter and messenger, five hundred dollars ; day watchman, seven hundred and twenty dollars; night watchman, seven hundred and twenty dollars; typewriter and stenographer, one thousand dollars ; in all, twenty-eight thousand eight hundred and ninety dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT NEW YORK: Assistant
treasurer, eight thousand dollars; deputy assistant treasurer and cashier, four thousand two hundred dollars; assistant cashier and chief clerk, three thousand six hundred dollars ; assistant cashier and vault clerk, three thousand two hundred dollars ; two chiefs of division, at three thousand one hundred dollars each; chief paying teller, three thousand dollars; two chiefs of division, at three thousand dollars each ; chief of division, two thousand seven hundred dollars; chief of division, and chief bookkeeper, at two thousand four hundred dollars each ; chief of division, and assistant teller, at two thousand three hundred dollars each; two assistant tellers, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each; two assistant tellers, at two thousand two hundred dollars each ; three assistant tellers, at two thousand one hundred dollars each; ten assistant tellers, at two thousand dollars each ; eleven assistant tellers, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; two assistant tellers, at one thousand seven hundred dollars each ; five assistant tellers, and two clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; six assistant tellers, and two clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; ten assistant tellers, and four clerks , at one thousand four hundred dollars each; one assistant teller, and two clerks, at one thousand three hundred dollars each; eight assistant tellers, and three clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; six assistant tellers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each ; six assistant tellers, at one thousand dollars each; one clerk, nine hundred dollars ; five assistant tellers, at nine hundred dollars each ; two messengers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; five messengers, at nine hundred dollars each ; two messengers, at eight hundred dollars each; two hall men, at one thousand dollars each; superintendent of building, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; chief

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. Sess. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1199

detective, one thousand five hundred dollars; assistant detective, one thousand two hundred dollars ; three engineers, at one thousand and fifty dollars each; eight watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, two hundred and six thousand five hundred and ten dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT PHILADELPHIA: Assistant Philadelphia.
treasurer, five thousand dollars ; cashier and chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; paying teller, two thousand three hundred dollars; coin and paying teller, two thousand dollars; bond and authorities clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; vault clerk, .one thousand nine hundred dollars; bookkeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assorting teller, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; redemption teller, one thousand six hundred dollars; receiving teller, one thousand seven hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; three clerks, at one thousand four hundred
dollars each; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; six clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; superintendent messenger and chief watchman, one thousand one hundred dollars ; six counters, at nine hundred dollars each; seven watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; in all, forty-nine thousand four hundred and forty dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT SAINT LOUIS: Assistant treas- Saint Louis.
urer, four thousand five hundred dollars ; cashier and chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; first teller, two thousand dollars ; second teller, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; third teller, one thousand six hundred dollars ; assorting teller, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant assorting teller, one thousand five hundred dollars ; two assistant tellers, at one thousand five hundred dollars
each; coin teller, one thousand two hundred dollars ; bookkeeper, one thousand five hundred dollars ; nine clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; three day watchmen and coin counters, at nine hundred dollars each; two night watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two janitors, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, forty thousand five hundred and forty dollars.
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT TREASURER AT SAN FRANCISCO: Assistant San Francisco.
treasurer, four thousand five hundred dollars ; cashier, three thousand dollars; bookkeeper, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars; assistant cashier, two thousand four hundred dollars ; first teller, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; assistant bookkeeper, two thousand dollars ; coin teller, and one clerk, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; messenger, eight hundred and forty dollars; four watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two coin counters, at nine hundred dollars each; in all, thirty thousand four hundred and twenty dollars.

MINTS AND ASSAY OFFICES.

Mints and assay offices.

MINT AT CARSON, NEVADA: Assayer in charge, who shall also perform the duties of melter, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; assistant assayer, one thousand five hundred dollars ; chief clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand dollars ; in all, six thousand three hundred and fifty dollars.
For wages of workmen and other employees, six thousand two hundred dollars.

Carson, Nev.

For incidental and contingent expenses, three thousand dollars. MINT AT DENVER, COLORADO : Superintendent, four thousand five Denver,Col. hundred dollars ; assayer, melter and refiner, and coiner, at three

1200

SIXTY- FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

thousand dollars each ; chief clerk, and cashier, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; deposit weigh clerk, and bookkeeper, at two thousand dollars each ; assistant assayer, two thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant melter and refiner, and assistant coiner, at two

thousand dollars each ; clerk, and assayer's assistant, at two thousand dollars each ; assistant cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; three clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; one clerk, one thousand two hundred dol-
lars ; private secretary, one thousand two hundred dollars ; in all, forty-eight thousand one hundred dollars.

For wages of workmen and other employees, ninety-four thousand dollars.

For incidental and contingent expenses, including new machinery

and repairs, exclusive of that required for the refinery, melter and

refiner's wastage, and loss on sale of sweeps arising from the manu-

New Orleans.

facture of ingots for coinage, and wastage and loss on sale of coiner's sweeps, thirty thousand dollars.
MINT AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA: Assayer who shall have

general charge of the institution as under section thirty-five hundred

R.S. , sec. 3560, p. 702. and sixty, Revised Statutes, and who shall be a practical assayer, two

thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant assayer, one thousand five

hundred dollars; chief clerk, who shall perform the duties of cashier,

one thousand five hundred dollars ; three clerks, one thousand two hundred dollars each; assayer's assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars ; in all, ten thousand three hundred dollars.

For wages of workmen and other employees, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Philadelphia.

For incidental and contingent expenses, three thousand five hundred dollars.
MINT AT PHILADELPHIA: Superintendent, four thousand five hun-
dred dollars ; engraver, four thousand dollars ; assayer, melter and refiner, and coiner, at three thousand dollars each; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant assayer, two thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant coiner, two thousand dollars , and five hundred dollars additional during present incumbency; assistant melter and refiner, two thousand dollars ; cashier, and bookkeeper, at two thousand five hundred dollars each ; clerk, and deposit weigh clerk, at two thousand dollars each; assayer's assistant, two thousand dollars ; assistant cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; curator, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand seven hundred dollars each ; eight clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; one clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; six clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand three hundred dollars each; two clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; seven clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; one clerk, nine hundred dollars ; in all, eighty thousand three hundred dollars .

8an Francisco, Cal.

For wages of workmen, and other employees, two hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars.
For incidental and contingent expenses, including new machinery and repairs, exclusive of that required for the refinery, expenses annual assay commission, melters' and refiners' wastage, and loss on sale of sweeps arising from the manufacture of ingots for coinage, and wastage and loss on sale of coiners' sweeps, and not exceeding five hundred dollars in value of specimen coins and ores for the cabinet of the mint, seventy thousand dollars.
MINT AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA: Superintendent, four thou
sand five hundred dollars; assayer, melter and refiner, and coiner, at three thousand dollars each ; chief clerk, and cashier, at two thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cò. 237. 1911 .

1201

sand five hundred dollars each; bookkeeper, two thousand dollars; assistant assayer, two thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant melter
and refiner, and assistant coiner, at two thousand dollars each; assistant cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant bookkeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assayer's assistant, two thousand dollars ; deposit weigh clerk, two thousand dollars; one clerk, two thousand dollars ; one clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ;
six clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; private secretary, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; in all, fifty-four thousand three hundred dollars.
For wages of workmen, and other employees; one hundred and fiftyfive thousand dollars.
For incidental and contingent expenses, including new machinery and repairs, exclusive of that required for the refinery, melter and refiners' wastage, and loss on sale of sweeps, arising from the manufacture of ingots for coinage, and for wastage and loss on sale of coiners' sweeps, forty thousand dollars.
ASSAY OFFICE AT BOISE, IDAHO: Assayer in charge, who shall also
perform the duties of melter, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant assayer, one thousand six hundred dollars ; chief clerk, who shall also perform the duties of cashier, one thousand five hundred dollars; assayer's assistant, one thousand five hundred dollars; one clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; in all, eight thousand and fifty dollars.
For wages of workmen, and other employees, three thousand five hundred and forty dollars.
For incidental and contingent expenses, two thousand five hundred dollars.

Boise, Idaho.

ASSAY OFFICE AT CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA: Assayer and Charlotte, N. C. melter, one thousand five hundred dollars.

For wages of workmen and other clerks and employees, nine hundred dollars.

For incidental and contingent expenses, five hundred dollars. ASSAY OFFICE AT DEADWOOD, SOUTH DAKOTA: Assayer in charge, who shall also perform the duties of melter, two thousand dollars ; clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; assistant assayer, one thousand six hundred dollars; assayer's assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars ; in all, six thousand two hundred dollars.

Deadwood, S. Dak.

For wages of workmen and other employees, two thousand three hundred dollars.

For incidental and contingent expenses, new machinery, and so forth, one thousand five hundred dollars.

ASSAY OFFICE AT HELENA, MONTANA: Assayer in charge, two Helena, Mont, thousand five hundred dollars; chief clerk, who shall also perform the

duties of cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars; clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dol-
lars; assistant assayer, one thousand seven hundred dollars; assayer's assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars ; in all, ten thousand four hundred dollars.

For wages of workmen and other employees, six thousand five hundred dollars.
For incidental and contingent expenses, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars.

ASSAY OFFICE AT NEW YORK: Superintendent, five thousand dollars ; assayer, and melter and refiner, at three thousand dollars each; chief clerk, cashier, and deposit weigh clerk, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; assistant melter and refiner, two thousand dollars; bookkeeper, two thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant assayer, two thousand five hundred dollars; one clerk, two thousand dollars; assayer's assistant, two thousand dollars ; assistant

1202

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

cashier, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; four clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; one clerk, one thousand five

hundred dollars ; private secretary, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one clerk, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; in all, forty-six thousand five hundred dollars.

Seattle, Wash.

For wages of workmen and other employees, thirty thousand dollars. For incidental and contingent expenses, ten thousand dollars. ASSAY OFFICE AT SEATTLE, WASHINGTON : Assayer in charge, who shall also perform the duties of melter, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant assayer, two thousand dollars ; chief clerk, who shall also perform the duties of cashier, two thousand dollars ; one clerk, one thousand seven hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ; in all, thirteen thousand and fifty dollars. For wages for workmen, and other employees, twenty-two thousand dollars .

For incidental and contingent expenses, including rent of building,

six thousand five hundred dollars.

Salt Lake City .

Utah.

ASSAY OFFICE AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: Assayer in charge, who

shall also perform the duties of melter, two thousand five hundred

dollars ; assistant assayer, one thousand six hundred dollars ; chief

Proviso. -Cashier.

clerk, who shall also perform the duties of cashier, one thousand six

hundred dollars : Provided, That the chief clerk shall perform the

duties of assayer in charge in his absence; clerk, one thousand four

hundred dollars ; in all, seven thousand one hundred dollars.

For wages of workmen, and other employees, four thousand five

hundred dollars.



For incidental and contingent expenses, three thousand five hundred dollars.

Government in Territories.

GOVERNMENT IN THE TERRITORIES.

Alaska. Arizona. New Mexico.

DISTRICT OF ALASKA: Governor, seven thousand dollars ; four
judges, at seven thousand five hundred dollars each; four attorneys, at five thousand dollars each; four marshals, at four thousand dollars
each; four clerks, at three thousand five hundred dollars each; in all, eighty-seven thousand dollars.
For incidental and contingent expenses, clerk hire, not to exceed two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; janitor, not to exceed nine hundred dollars; traveling expenses of the governor while absent from Juneau on official business; rent of offices and quarters in Juneau, stationery, lights, and fuel, to be expended under the direction of the governor, seven thousand one hundred and fifty dollars.
TERRITORY OF ARIZONA: Governor, three thousand five hundred dollars ; chief justice, and four associate judges, at three thousand dollars each; secretary, two thousand five hundred dollars; interpreter and translator in the executive office, five hundred dollars ; in all, twenty-one thousand five hundred dollars.
For contingent expenses of the Territory, including not to exceed five hundred dollars for traveling expenses of the governor while absent from the capital on official business, to be expended by the governor, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For legislative expenses, namely: For rent, messenger, postage, stationery, fuel, lights, printing, and incidental expenses for secretary's office, two thousand dollars.
TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO: Governor, three thousand five hundred dollars ; chief justice and six associate judges, at three thousand dollars each; secretary, two thousand five hundred dollars ; interpreter and translator in the executive office, five hundred dollars ; in all, twenty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 237. 1911 .

1203

For contingent expenses of Territory, including not to exceed five hundred dollars for traveling expenses of the governor while absent from the capital on official business, to be expended by the governor, one thousand five hundred dollars.

For legislative expenses, namely: Rent, light, fuel, telephone, ice,. water, stationery, record files, record casings, printing, postage, clerks, stenographer and typewriter, messenger and porter, and incidentals in secretary's office, three thousand dollars.
TERRITORY OF HAWAII: Governor, seven thousand dollars; secretary, four thousand dollars; chief justice, six thousand dollars; two associate justices, at five thousand five hundred dollars each; in all, twenty-eight thousand dollars.

Hawaii .

For judges of circuit courts, at four thousand dollars each, so
much as may be necessary, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

For contingent expenses of the Territory of Hawaii, to be expended bythe governor for stationery, postage, and incidentals, one thousand

dollars, and for private secretary to the governor, two thousand dollars; for traveling expenses of the governor while absent from the
capital on official business, five hundred dollars ; in all, three thousand five hundred dollars.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

War Department.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY: Secretary of War, twelve thousand AssPiastyanot,faSsescirsettaarnyt

dollars;

Assistant Secretary, five thousand dollars ;

assistant

and

calnerdks,

chief etc.

clerk,

chief clerk, four thousand dollars; private secretary to the Secretary,

two thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk to the Secretary, two

thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; stenographer to the Secre-

tary, one thousand eight hundred dollars; clerk to the Assistant Secretary, two thousand four hundred dollars; clerk to the assistant

and chief clerk, two thousand one hundred dollars; disbursing clerk,

two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; appointment clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; four chiefs of division,

at two thousand dollars each ; superintendent of buildings outside of

State, War, and Navy Department building, in addition to compensation as chief of division, five hundred dollars ; chief telegrapher, one

thousand eight hundred dollars; four clerks of class four; four clerks of class three; fifteen clerks of class two ; nineteen clerks of class one ;

six clerks, at one thousand dollars each; clerk, nine hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars; carpenter, one thousand

dollars; chief messenger, one thousand dollars; carpenter, nine

hundred dollars; skilled laborer, nine hundred dollars; six messengers; seven assistant messengers ; telephone switchboard operator; assistant telephone switchboard operator; two messenger boys, at

three hundred and sixty dollars each; engineer, nine hundred

dollars; assistant engineer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

fireman; four watchmen; five watchmen, at six hundred and sixty

dollars each; eight laborers; two laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each; hostler, six hundred dollars; two hostlers, and one

watchman, at five hundred and forty dollars each; two elevator

conductors, one at six hundred dollars and one at five hundred and

forty dollars; four charwomen; in all, one hundred and forty-seven thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars.

ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE: Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; OfAfidcjeu. tant General's ten chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each ; forty-eight clerks

of class four ; sixty-four clerks of class three; ninety-four clerks of class

two; two hundred and thirty-two clerks of class one ; eighty-eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each; engineer, one thousand four

hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, nine hundred dollars ; two

1204

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

firemen ; skilled mechanic, one thousand dollars; ten messengers ;

fifty-eight assistant messengers ; messenger boy, three hundred and

sixty dollars ; eight watchmen; superintendent of building, two

hundred and fifty dollars; and eighteen laborers; in all, seven hundred and eighty-one thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars ; and all

employees provided for by this paragraph for the Adjutant General's

Office of the War Department shall be exclusively engaged on the

work of this office for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

Inspector General's Office.

OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL: Clerk of class four; two clerks

of class three ; three clerks of class two ; clerk of class one; messenger;

assistant messenger; and messenger, six hundred dollars ; in all,
twelve thousand five hundred and sixty dollars. Judge Advocate OFFICE OF THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL: Chief clerk and General's Office.
solicitor, two thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk of class four; two

clerks of class three ; two clerks of class two ; six clerks of class one ;

Signal Office.

copyist; two messengers ; assistant messenger; in all, twenty thousand eight hundred dollars.
SIGNAL OFFICE : Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class four; one clerk of class three; one clerk of class two ; four clerks

Skilled etc.

of class one; ten clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two messengers; assistant messenger; in all, twenty-five thousand eight hundred dollars. draftsmen, The services of skilled draftsmen and such other services as the
Secretary of War may deem necessary may be employed only in the

Signal Office to carry into effect the various appropriations for fortifications and other works of defense, to be paid from such appropria-

Proviso. Limit, etc.

tions, in addition to the foregoing employees appropriated for in the Signal Office: Provided, That the entire expenditures for this purpose for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve,

shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars, and that the Secretary of War shall each year in the annual estimates report to Congress the

number of persons so employed, their duties, and the amount paid to

each.

Quartermaster General's Office.

OFFICE OF THE QUARTERMASTER GENERAL: Chief clerk, two thou-

sand dollars ; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each;

nine clerks of class four; fourteen clerks of class three; twenty-seven

clerks of class two ; fifty-eight clerks of class one; forty clerks, at one thousand dollars each; fourteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ;

advisory architect, four thousand dollars ; experienced builder and

mechanic, two thousand five hundred dollars; inspector of supplies, two thousand five hundred dollars ; three draftsmen, at one thousand

eight hundred dollars each; seven draftsmen, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; five draftsmen, at one thousand four hundred

dollars each; two draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars

each; supervising engineer, two thousand seven hundred and fifty

dollars; two civil engineers, at one thousand eight hundred dollars

each; assistant civil engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars; electrical engineer, two thousand dollars ; electrical and mechanical

engineer, two thousand dollars ; marine engineer, three thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant marine engineer, one thousand eight

hundred dollars; sanitary and heating engineer, one thousand eight hundred dollars; writer of specifications and computer, one thousand

two hundred dollars ; blueprint operator, nine hundred dollars ; four

messengers ; eleven assistant messengers; two assistant messengers, at six hundred dollars each; female messenger, four hundred and

eighty dollars; seven laborers ; laborer, four hundred and eighty.

dollars ; in all, two hundred and seventy-eight thousand four hundred

and ten dollars.

Commissary Gencral's Office.

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSARY GENERAL: Chief clerk, two thousand

dollars ; six clerks of class four ; eight clerks of class three;, eight clerks

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1205

of class two; eighteen clerks of class one ; thirteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each; five clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messen-
ger; two assistant messengers; laborer; in all, seventy-eight thousand eight hundred and forty dollars.
OFFICE OF THE SURGEON GENERAL: Chief clerk, two thousand dol- Surgeon General's lars; law clerk, two thousand dollars ; thirteen clerks of class four ; eleven clerks of class three; twenty-six clerks of class two ; thirty-two clerks of class one; ten clerks, at one thousand dollars each; three clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; anatomist, one thousand six hundred dollars ; engineer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, for night duty, nine hundred dollars ; two firemen; skilled mechanic, one thousand dollars ; two messengers; ten assistant
messengers; three watchmen; superintendent of building (Army Medical Museum and Library), two hundred and fifty dollars ; six laborers ; chemist, two thousand and eighty-eight dollars; assistant chemist, one thousand five hundred dollars; principal assistant librarian, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; pathologist, · one thousand eight hundred dollars ; microscopist, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant librarian, one thousand eight hundred dollars; four charwomen; in all, one hundred and sixty-six thousand two hundred and eighty-eight dollars.
OFFICE OF THE PAYMASTER GENERAL: Chief clerk, two thousand OfPfaiycemasterGeneral's dollars ; six clerks of class four ; seven clerks of class three; twelve
clerks of class two ; eleven clerks of class one ; five clerks, at one
thousand dollars each; nine clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; assistant messenger; four laborers ; laborer, six hundred dollars ; in all, seventy-one thousand nine hundred dollars.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF ORDNANCE : Chief clerk, two thousand Ordnance Office. dollars ; chief of division, two thousand dollars ; five clerks of class

four ; seven clerks of class three ; twelve clerks of class two ; twentyeight clerks of class one ; nine clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; two messengers ; assistant

messenger; messenger, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; laborer; in all, ninety-one thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars.
The services of skilled draftsmen and such other services, not etcS.killed draftsmen,
clerical, as the Secretary of War may deem necessary, may be employed in the office of the Chief of Ordnance to carry into effect the various appropriations for the armament of fortifications and for the
arming and equipping of the organized militia, to be paid from such appropriations, in addition to the amount specifically appropriated for draftsmen in the Army Ordnance Bureau: Provided, That the PLriomviits,oe.tc. entire expenditures for this purpose for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars, and that the Secretary of War shall each year in the annual estimates report to Congress the number of persons so
employed, their duties, and the amount paid to each. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS: Chief clerk, two thousand EngineerOffice.

dollars ; two chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; eight clerks of class four; eleven clerks of class three; twelve clerks of class two; fifteen clerks of class one; nine clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; eleven clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; six messen-

gers; three assistant messengers ; and two laborers ; in all, one hundred thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.
And the services of skilled draftsmen, civil engineers, and such other etcS.killed draftsmen, services as the Secretary of War may deem necessary, may be

employed only in the office of the Chief of Engineers, to carry into effect the various appropriations for rivers and harbors, fortifications,
and surveys, to be paid from such appropriations: Provided, That the expenditures on this account for the fiscal year nineteen hundred

Proviso. mit, etc.

88740°-VOL 36, r 1--11-78

:

1206

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

and twelve, shall not exceed forty-two thousand -dollars ; and that

the Secretary of War shall each year, in the annual estimates, report

to Congress the number of persons so employed, their duties, and the

Insular Affairs Bu- amount paid to each.

reau.

OFFICE OF THE BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS : Law officer, four

thousand five hundred dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ;

ten clerks of class four; three clerks of class three ; ten clerks of class

two ; nineteen clerks of class one ; eighteen clerks, at one thousand

dollars each ; two messengers ; two assistant messengers ; five labor-

Militia Affairs Divi- ers; two charwomen ; in all, ninety-one thousand dollars. sion, Office of Chiefof DIVISION OF MILITIA AFFAIRS, OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

Staff. Vol. 35, p. 403.

For the following now authorized by section twenty of the Act

approved January twenty-first, nineteen hundred and three, as

amended by the Act approved May twenty-seventh, nineteen hun-

dred and eight, namely: Chief clerk, two thousand dollars; two clerks of class four; two clerks of class three; three clerks of class
two ; nine clerks of class one ; seven clerks , at one thousand dollars each ; one messenger; one assistant messenger; two laborers ; two

Miscellaneous penses.

charwomen; in all, thirty-four thousand one hundred and sixty dollars. ex- For miscellaneous expenses of the Division of Militia Affairs,
including stationery, fuel, light, furniture, telegraph and telephone service, and necessary printing and binding, three thousand five

hundred dollars, which sum, together with the foregoing amount for

apPpraoipdrifartioomn. militia salaries, shall be paid from the permanent· appropriation for militia Vol. 34, p. 449. under the provisions of section sixteen hundred and sixty-one,

Revised Statutes, as amended, and no other or further sums shall be

expended from said appropriation for or on account of said Division
of Militia Affairs during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve. Contingentexpenses.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES OF THE WAR DEPARTMENT: For purchase

of professional and scientific books, law books , including their exchange ; books of reference, blank books, pamphlets, periodicals, newspapers (subscriptions to periodicals may be paid for in advance), maps; typewriters and adding machines, including their exchange ; furniture and repairs to same; carpets, matting, oilcloth, file cases,

towels, ice, brooms, soap, sponges, fuel, gas, and heating apparatus for and repairs to the buildings (outside of the State, War, and Navy Department building) occupied by Adjutant General's office, the Bureau of Insular Affairs, and the other offices of the War Department and its bureaus located in the Lemon Building; expenses of

Stationery. Postage stamps.
Bent.

horses and wagons, to be used only for official purposes ; freight and express charges; temporary labor not to exceed one thousand dollars, and other absolutely necessary expenses, fifty thousand dollars.
For stationery for the War Department and its bureaus and offices, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For postage stamps for the War Department and its bureaus, as required under the Postal Union, to prepay postage on· matters. addressed to Postal Union countries, five hundred dollars.
For rent of buildings for use of the War Department, as follows: Medical dispensary, Surgeon General's office, one thousand dollars ; Division of Militia Affairs, two thousand five hundred dollars ; War

Department, seven thousand two hundred dollars ; Adjutant General's office, two thousand three hundred dollars ; Bureau of Insular Affairs, two thousand two hundred and twenty dollars ; in all, fifteen thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cà. 237. 1911 .

1207

PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

Public buildings and grounds.

OFFICE OF PUBLIO BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS: Superintendent, three siSsutpanetr, icnlteernksd,eenttc,.asthousand dollars ; assistant and chief clerk, two thousand four hundred
dollars; clerk of class four; clerk of class three; clerk and stenographer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk of class one; messenger;

landscape architect, two thousand four hundred dollars ; surveyor and draftsman, one thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, sixteen thousand one hundred and forty dollars.
For foremen, gardeners, mechanics, and laborers employed in the public grounds, thirty-one thousand two hundred dollars.
For one sergeant of park watchmen, nine hundred and fifty dollars. For second sergeant of park watchmen, nine hundred dollars. For day watchmen, as follows: One in Franklin Park and adjacent reservations on New York avenue; one in Lafayette Park; two in Smithsonian Grounds and neighboring reservations; one in Judiciary Park; one in Lincoln Park and adjacent reservations; one in Iowa Circle and reservations to the northwest; one in Thomas and Scott circles and neighboring reservations; one in Washington Circle and neighboring reservations; one in Dupont Circle and neighboring reservations; one in McPherson Park and Farragut Square; one in Stanton Park and neighboring reservations; two in Henry and Seaton parks and neighboring reservations ; one in Mount Vernon Park and reservations to the northeast; one in grounds south of the Executive Mansion; one in Garfield and Marion parks and reservations to the east; one in Monument Park; and three in Potomac Park; twenty-one in all, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each, fifteen thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.

Foremen, etc. Watchmen. Day force.

For night watchmen, as follows : Two in Smithsonian Grounds and neighboring reservations; one in Judiciary Park; two in Henry and Seaton parks and adjacent reservations; one in grounds south of the Executive Mansion; one in Monument Park; one in Garfield Park and neighboring reservations; one in Iowa, Scott, and Thomas Circles and neighboring reservations; one in Stanton andLincoln Parks and neighboring reservations; one in Lafayette and McPherson Squares and · Franklin and Farragut Parks; one in Washington and Dupont Circles and neighboring reservations; one in Mount Vernon Park and neighboring reservations; two for greenhouses and nursery; and four in Potomac Park; nineteen in all, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each, thirteen thousand six hundred and eighty dollars.
For watchman for the care of the monument and dock at Wake

Night force. Wakefield, Va.

field, Virginia, the birthplace of Washington, three hundred dollars. For contingent and incidental expenses, including purchase of pro- Contingentexpenses.
fessional and scientific books and periodicals, books of reference,
blank books, photographs, and maps, seven hundred dollars. For purchase and repair of bicycles and revolvers for park watch-
men and for purchase of ammunition; one thousand dollars. For purchasing and supplying uniforms to park, Monument, and Uniforms.
bridge watchmen, two thousand eight hundred dollars. Of the foregoing amounts appropriated under Public Buildings and trAicmtoruevnetnuferso. m Dis-
Grounds, the sum of thirty-three thousand one hundred and seventyfive dollars shall be paid out of the revenues of the District of Columbia.

STATE, WAR, AND NAVY DEPARTMENT BUILDING.

State, War, and Navy Department
Building.

Office of the superintendent: Clerk of class three; stenographer and waCtlecrhkms,en,eentgc.ineers, typewriter, nine hundred dollars ; chief engineer, one thousand four hundred dollars; five assistant engineers, at one thousand dollars each ; electrical machinist, one thousand two hundred dollars ; cap-

1208

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

tain of the watch, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two lieutenants

of the watch, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; forty-nine

watchmen; carpenter, one thousand dollars ; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; machinist, painter, and plumber, at one

thousand dollars each ; three dynamo tenders, at nine hundred dol-

lars each; seven skilled laborers or mechanics, at eight hundred and

forty dollars each; messenger; foreman of laborers, eight hundred and

forty dollars ; ten firemen ; eleven conductors of elevators, at seven

hundred and twenty dollars each; seventeen laborers ; three second-

class firemen, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ; four forewomen

of charwomen, at three hundred dollars each; seventy-seven char-

women; gardener, seven hundred and twenty dollars; in all, one hun-

Fuel, lights, etc. Mills Building.

dred and twelve thousand four hundred and forty dollars. For fuel, lights, repairs, and miscellaneous items, and city directo-
ries, thirty-two thousand dollars.
NAVY DEPARTMENT ANNEX, MILLS BUILDING : Engineer, ome

thousand two hundred dollars ; four firemen ; two elevator condue-

tors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; five watchmen ; four

laborers ; one forewoman, three hundred dollars; nine charwoman; m

all, fourteen thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.

For repairs, supplies, and miscellaneous articles, Mills Building

(Navy Department Annex), two thousand dollars.

State Department Annex.

STATE DEPARTMENT ANNEX : Laborer, six hundred and sixty dol-

· lars.

Navy Department.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Payof Secretary, Assistant, clerks, etc.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY: Secretary of the Navy, twelve thou-

sand dollars ; Assistant Secretary of the Navy, five thousand dollars ;

chief clerk, three thousand dollars ; private secretary to Secretary,

two thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk to Secretary, two thousand

two hundred and fifty dollars ; clerk to Assistant Secretary, two

thousand dollars; disbursing clerk, two thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars ; four clerks of class four ; stenographer, one thousand

eight hundred dollars ; clerk of class three ; four clerks of class two ;

five clerks of class one ; stenographer, one thousand two hundred dol-

lars ; clerk, one thousand one hundred dollars; four clerks, at`one

thousand dollars each ; telegraph operator, one thousand one hundred

dollars; two copyists ; carpenter, nine hundred dollars ; four messen-

gers ; four assistant messengers ; three laborers ; three messenger boys, at six hundred dollars each; messenger boy, four hundred and

twenty dollars ; messenger boy, four hundred dollars ; telephone

switchboard operator ; assistant telephone switchboard operator ; in

all, seventy-three thousand four hundred and sixty dollars.

Solicitor's office.

OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR : Solicitor, four thousand dollars ; law

clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; law clerk, two thousand

two hundred and fifty dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars ;

clerk of class four; clerk of class three ; clerk of class two ; clerk, eight

hundred and forty dollars ; and messenger, six hundred dollars ; in all,

Library.

sixteen thousand nine hundred and ninety dollars. LIBRARY OF THE NAVY DEPARTMENT: One clerk of class two ; clerk

of class one; assistant messenger ; and one laborer ; in all, three thou-

sand nine hundred and eighty dollars.

Naval Records of Rebellion.

OFFICE OF NAVAL RECORDS OF THE REBELLION : Chief clerk, two

thousand dollars ; agent, to be selected by the Secretary of the Navy

from the officers of the late Confederate navy, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk of class three (indexer) ; three clerks of class

two ; three clerks of class one; two clerks, at onethousand dollars each ;

copyist ; copyist, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; assistant messenger; necessary traveling expenses for collection of records, one hundred

dollars; in all, seventeen thousand six hundred and forty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1209

For continuing the publication of an edition of eleven thousand.Cotinotn.inuingpublica-

copies of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in Vol. 28, p. 190.

the War of the Rebellion, in accordance with the plan approved by

the Secretary of the Navy under the Act of Congress approved July

thirty-first, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and for the purpose of

making such maps and illustrations as relate to the work, twenty-one

thousand dollars.

Judge Advocate

JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL, UNITED STATES NAVY: Law clerk, General's office.

two thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk of class four; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; two clerks of class one; three clerks,

at one thousand dollars each; clerk, nine hundred dollars; assistant
messenger; in all, twelve thousand three hundred and twenty dollars. Bureau of NavigaBUREAU OF NAVIGATION: Chief clerk, two thousand dollars; clerk, tion
two thousand dollars; four clerks of class four; five clerks of class

three; five clerks of class two ; eight clerks of class one ; three clerks, at one thousand one hundred dollars each ; fourteen clerks, at one

thousand dollars each ; fourteen copyists ; ten copyists, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; two assistant messengers ; messenger boy, six hundred dollars; and five laborers; in all, seventy-nine thousand four hundred and forty dollars.

OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE: Clerk of class four; clerk of classNOfafivcae.l Intelligence two; two translators, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; assistant draftsman, one'

thousand two hundred dollars; three clerks, at one thousand dollars

each; messenger boy, six hundred dollars; in all, twelve thousand one hundred dollars.
BUREAU OF EQUIPMENT: Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; expert meBnutreau of Equip-

in wireless telegraphy, three thousand dollars ; draftsman, who shall Post,p. 1273. be an expert in marine construction, two thousand dollars ; bookkeeper and accountant, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk of

class four; two draftsman, at one thousand seven hundred dollars

each; electrical expert and draftsman, one thousand six hundred dollars; clerk of class three; clerk of class two; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars; two clerks of class one; draftsman for work in connection with depots for coal, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

four clerks, af, one thousand dollars each; two. copyists ; assistant messenger; messenger boy, six hundred dollars; blueprinter, six hun-

dred dollars; messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars ; and two laborers ; in all, thirty-two thousand nine hundred dollars.
HYDROGRAPHIC OFFICE : Hydrographic engineer, three thousand dollars; assistant, two thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant, two thousand dollars; nautical expert, one thousand eight hundred dollars, two nautical experts, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; nautical expert, one thousand four hundred dollars ; three nautical experts, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; three nautical experts, at one thousand dollars each; clerk of class two ; clerk of class one; custodian of archives, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

Hydrographic Office.

three copyists; copyist, eight hundred and forty dollars ; two copyists, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; compiler, one thousand four hundred dollars ; editor of Notice to Mariners, one thousand

six hundred dollars ; computer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; three draftsmen, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; four draftsmen, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; two draftsmen, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; two draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; five draftsmen, at one thousand

dollars each ; draftsman, nine hundred dollars ; three apprentice draftsmen, at seven hundred dollars each; chief engraver, two thou-
sand dollars ; two engravers, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; three engravers, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; engraver, one thousand four hundred dollars; six engravers, one thousand two hundred dollars each; two engravers, at one thousand

dollars each; engraver, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; apprentice engraver, eight hundred dollars ; apprentice engraver, seven hun-

1210

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

dred dollars ; chief plate printer, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

plate printer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; plate printer, one thousand dollars ; two plate printers, at nine hundred dollars each ;

plate printer, eight hundred dollars ; apprentice plate printer, seven hundred dollars; apprentice plate printer, six hundred dollars; chief

lithographer, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two lithographers,

at one thousand dollars each; apprentice lithographer, seven hundred

dollars ; electrotyper and chart plate maker, one thousand two hun-

dred dollars ; assistant messenger ; four laborers ; two helpers, at

seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two helpers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; helper, six hundred dollars ; helper, five hun-

Materials.

dred dollars ; helper, four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, one hundred and two thousand five hundred dollars.
For purchase of copperplates, steel plates, chart paper, packing boxes, chart portfolios, electrotyping copperplates, cleaning copper-

plates ; tools, instruments, power, and materials for drawing, engraving, and printing; materials for and mounting charts ; reduction of charts by photography ; photolithographing charts for immediate use; transfer of photolithographic and other charts to copper; care and repairs to printing presses, furniture, instruments, and tools ; extra drawing and engraving; translating from foreign languages; telegrams on public business ; the preparation of Pilot Charts and their
supplements, and the printing and mailing of the same; purchase of data for charts and sailing directions and other nautical publications ; works and periodicals relating to hydrography, marine meteorology, navigation, surveying, oceanography, and terrestrial magnetism, seven thousand dollars. etcL.ithographic press, For purchase of one lithographic printing press, four thousand dollars.

Branch offices, con- For purchase of one folding machine, seven hundred dollars.

tingent expenses.

Contingent expenses of branch offices at Boston, New York, Phila-

delphia, Baltimore, Norfolk, Savannah, New Orleans, San Francisco,

Portland (Oregon), Portland (Maine), Chicago, Cleveland, Port Town-

send, Buffalo, Duluth, Sault Sainte Marie, and Galveston, including

furniture, fuel, lights, works and periodicals relating to hydrography,

marine meteorology, navigation, surveying, oceanography, and terres-

trial magnetism, stationery, miscellaneous articles, rent and care of

offices, care of time balls, car fare and ferriage in visiting merchant

vessels, freight and express charges, telegrams, and other necessary

expenses incurred in collecting the latest information for the Pilot

Charts, and for other purposes for which the offices were established, eleven thousand dollars .

Employees.

For services of necessary employees at branch offices, seventeen

thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.

Monthly Pilot Chart, North Pacific Ocean.

For a monthly Pilot Chart of the North Pacific Ocean, showing

graphically the matters of value and interest to the maritime com-

munity of the Pacific coast, and particularly the directions and forces of the winds to be expected during the month succeeding the date of

issue; the set and strength of the currents ; the feeding grounds of

whales and seals ; the regions of storm, fog, and ice; the position of derelicts and floating obstructions to navigation; the best routes to

be followed by steam and by sail; expenses of communicating and

circulating information, lithographing and engraving; the purchase

of materials for and printing and mailing the chart, two thousand

dollars.

Personal services re-

stricted.

No expenditure shall be incurred or authorized for personal services

or otherwise under the Hydrographic Office at Washington, District

of Columbia, during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve

except as herein authorized by appropriations under the Navy

Department or under appropriations that may be made for printing and binding.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1211

NAVAL OBSERVATORY: For three assistant astronomers , one at Naval Observatory.

two thousand four hundred dollars, and two at one thousand eight

hundred dollars each; assistant in department of nautical instruments, one thousand six hundred dollars; .clerk of class four; clerk of class two; instrument maker, one thousand.five hundred dollars ;

electrician, one thousand five hundred dollars; three assistants, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; three assistants, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; librarian, one thousand four

hundred dollars; two assistants, at one thousand dollars each; stenographer and typewriter, nine hundred dollars ; foreman and

captain of the watch, one thousand dollars ; carpenter, and engineer, at one thousand dollars each ; three firemen; six watchmen; elevator conductor, seven hundred and twenty dollars; and nine laborers; in all, forty-three thousand two hundred and forty dollars.
For miscellaneous computations, five thousand dollars. For professional and scientific books, periodicals, engravings, photographs, and fixtures for the library, seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Computations. Library.

For apparatus and instruments, and for repairs of the same, four Apparatus. thousand five hundred dollars.

For repairs to buildings, fixtures, and fences, furniture, gas, chem- Contingent expenses.
icals, and stationery, freight (including transmission of public documents through the Smithsonian exchange), foreign postage, and
expressage, plants, fertilizers, and all contingent expenses, three thousand dollars.

For fuel, oil, grease, tools, pipe, wire, and other materials needed for the maintenance and repair of boilers, engines, heating apparatus,

electric lighting and power plant, and water-supply system; purchase and maintenance of teams; material for boxing nautical instru-

ments for transportation ; paints, telegraph and telephone service,

and incidental labor, eight thousand dollars.

NAUTICAL ALMANAC OFFICE:

Nautical For the following assistants in pre- out

Almanac

paring for publication the American Ephemeris and Nautical Alma-

nac, namely: One, at two thousand dollars ; two, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; two, at one thousand four hundred dollars

each; three, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two, at one

thousand dollars each; copyist and typewriter, nine hundred dollars ;

assistant messenger; and one messenger boy, four hundred and

twenty dollars ; in all, fifteen thousand six hundred and forty dollars. For pay of computers on piecework in preparing for publication the Computers.

American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac and in improving the

tables of the planets, moon, and stars, seven thousand dollars.

BUREAU OF STEAM ENGINEERING : Chief clerk, two thousand EnBguirneeaeruinog.f Steam

dollars; clerk of class four; clerk of class three; two clerks of class

two; clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars; three clerks of class

one; clerk, one thousand one hundred dollars ; three clerks, at one

thousand dollars each; clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; assistant messenger; two laborers ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars

each; messenger boy, six hundred dollars ; draftsman, one thousand four hundred dollars ; assistant draftsman, one thousand two hun-

dred dollars ; stenographer and typewriter, one thousand dollars ;

stenographer and typewriter, nine hundred dollars; in all, twenty-six

thousand three hundred and eighty dollars.

Bureau of Construc-

BUREAU OF CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR: Chief clerk, two thousand tion and Repair.

dollars ; two clerks of class four ; two clerks of class three ; three clerks

of class two ; three clerks, at one thousand three hundred dollars

each; three clerks of class one ; nine clerks, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; fifteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each ;

five copyists; two assistant messengers ; laborer; nine messenger

1212

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 237. 1911.

boys, at six hundred dollars each ; messenger boy, four hundred
dollars ; in all, fifty-seven thousand eight hundred dollars. Technical services. The services of draftsmen and such other technical services as the

Secretary of the Navy may deem necessary may be employed only in the Bureaus of Ordnance, Equipment, Construction and Repair, and Steam Engineering to carry into effect the various appropriations for "Increase of the Navy,'" "Construction and repair, " " Steam

Proviso. Limit, etc.

machinery," "Ordnance and ordnance stores," and " Equipment of ""
Vessels," to be paid from appropriations " Construction and repair,' "Steam machinery," "Ordnance and ordnance stores," and " Equip-
ment of vessels : " Provided, That the expenditures on this account
for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve shall not exceed one
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ; a statement of the persons

employed hereunder, their duties, and the compensation paid to each

shall be made to Congress each year in the annual estimates.

Bureau of Ordnance.

BUREAU OF ORDNANCE: Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; ord-

nance engineer, mechanical draftsman, and computer, three thousand

dollars ; draftsman, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; assistant

draftsman, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two clerks of class

three; two clerks of class two ; clerk, one thousand three hundred

dollars; three clerks of class one ; clerk, one thousand one hundred

dollars ; five clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; three copyists ; two

copyists, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; assistant messenger ;

two messenger boys, at six hundred dollars each; two messenger

boys, at four hundred dollars each ; and laborer; in all, thirty-two

thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts.

BUREAU OF SUPPLIES AND ACCOUNTS : Civilian assistant, two

thousand five hundred dollars ; two chief bookkeepers, at two thou-

sand dollars each ; four clerks of class four ; seven clerks of class three ;

six clerks of class two ; fifteen clerks of class one ; ten clerks, at one

thousand one hundred dollars each ; twenty-eight clerks, at one

thousand dollars each; twelve clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ;

two copyists, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; five assistant

messengers ; messenger boy, six hundred dollars ; three messenger

boys, at four hundred dollars each ; laborer ; and two laborers, at six

hundred dollars each ; in all, one hundred and ten thousand and

Bureau of Medicine forty dollars.

and Surgery.

BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY: Chief clerk, two thousand

dollars ; two clerks of class four ; clerk of class three ; clerk of class

two ; clerk of class one; two clerks, at one thousand one hundred

dollars each; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; copyist,

eight hundred and forty dollars; assistant messenger; laborer ; driver

for naval dispensary, six hundred dollars ; and laborer, for naval

dispensary, four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand

three hundred dollars.

Bureau ofYardsand Docks.

BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOOKS : Chief clerk, two thousand dollars ;

draftsman and clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk of

class three; clerk of class two ; two clerks of class one ; clerk, one thou-

sand one hundred dollars ; six clerks, at one thousand dollars each ;

assistant messenger; three messenger boys, at six hundred dollars
each; and two laborers ; in all, twenty thousand one hundred and forty dollars. Technical services. The services of skilled draftsmen and such other technical services

Proviso. Limit, etc.

as the Secretary of the Navy may deem necessary may be employed only in the Bureau of Yards and Docks to carry into effect the various appropriations thereunder and be paid from such appropriations : Provided, That the expenditures on this account for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve shall not exceed forty thousand dollars ;

a statement of the persons employed hereunder, their duties, and the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1213

compensation paid to each shall be made to Congress each year inthe annual estimates.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES, NAVY DEPARTMENT: For professional and Contingentexpenses. technical books and periodicals, law books,,and necessary reference books, including city directories, railway guides, freight, passenger, and express tariff books, for department library, two thousand dollars.
For stationery, furniture, newspapers, plans, drawings, drawing materials, horses and wagons to be used only for official purposes, freight, expressage, postage, typewriters and computing machines and exchange of same, and other absolutely necessary expenses of the Navy Department and its various bureaus and offices, fortythousand dollars ; it shall not be lawful to expend, for any of the offices or bureaus of the Navy Department at Washington, any sum out of appropriations made for the Naval Establishment for any of the purposes mentioned or authorized in this paragraph.
Toward installing steel fireproof file cases and file boxes required Fireproof files.
to furnish additional filing space and to replace old wooden file cases and file boxes, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For the rental of Mills Building, authorized by Act of Congress RVoeln.t32, p. 565. approved July first, nineteen hundred and two, twenty-four thousand five hundred dollars.
No part of any appropriations made for the naval service shall be ofRensatvriacltisoenrsviocne uaspeexpended for any of the purposes herein provided for on account of propriations. the Navy Department at Washington, District of Columbia, except for personal services in certain bureaus, as herein expressly authorized.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

InteriorDepartment.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY: For compensation of the Secretary of AsPsiasytanotfs. Secretary, the Interior, twelve thousand dollars; First Assistant Secretary, five

thousand dollars; Assistant Secretary, four thousand five hundred ,

dollars; chief clerk, including five hundred dollars as superintendent CMhaideefclcehrikef execu of buildings, who shall be chief executive officer of the department tive officer; duties.

and who may be designated by the Secretary of the Interior to sign

official papers and documents during the temporary absence of the Secretary and the Assistant Secretaries of the department, four

thousand dollars ; assistant to the Secretary, two thousand seven

hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant attorney, two thousand five hun- inAsptetcotronresy,se,tc.special dred dollars (one transferred to office of the Assistant Attorney General) ; two special inspectors, whose employment shall be limited to the inspection of offices and the work in the several offices under the

control of the Department of the Interior, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; six inspectors, at two thousand five hundred dol-

lars each; chief disbursing clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty Clerks, etc. dollars; clerk in charge of supplies, two thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars ; clerk in charge of mails, files, and archives, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; clerk in charge of publications,

two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; four clerks, at_two thousand dollars each; private secretary to the Secretary of the Inte-

rior, two thousand five hundred dollars ; thirteen clerks of class four ;

eighteen clerks of class three; twenty-one clerks of class two; twentyfour clerks of class one; returns office clerk, one thousand six hun-

dred dollars; female clerk, to be designated by the President, to sign

land patents, one thousand two hundred dollars; three clerks, at one

thousand dollars each; eight copyists ; multograph operator, nine

hundred dollars; typewriter repairer, nine hundred dollars ; switchboard telephone operator; nine messengers ; seven assistant messengers; twenty-one laborers; two skilled mechanics, one at nine hundred dollars and one at seven hundred and twenty dollars; two car-

Messengers, etc.

penters, at nine hundred dollars each; plumber, nine hundred dollars ;

1214

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

electrician, one thousand dollars; laborer, six hundred dollars ; six

laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; packer, six hun-

dred and sixty dollars ; two conductors of elevator, at seven hundred

and twenty dollars each; eight charwomen; captain of the watch, one

thousand two hundred dollars; forty watchmen; additional to two

watchmen acting as lieutenants of watchmen, at one hundred and

twenty dollars each; engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

deCeldesr.k to sign tribal assistant engineer, one thousand dollars ; seven firemen ; clerk, to

sign, under the direction of the Secretary, in his name and for him,

his approval of all tribal deeds to allottees and deeds for town lots

made and executed according to law for any of the Five Civilized

Tribes of Indians in the Indian Territory, one thousand two hundred

dollars; in all, two hundred and seventy-four thousand one hundred

and thirty dollars.

Employees, old Post Office Department For employees, for the proper protection, heating, care, and pres-

Building.

ervation of the old Post Office Department Building, occupied by the

Department of the Interior, namely: Engineer and electrician, one thousand six hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, one thousand dollars; four firemen ; three watchmen, acting as lieutenants, at eight

hundred and forty dollars each; twenty watchmen ; conductor of

elevator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; fourteen laborers ; nine laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; three skilled

mechanics (painter, carpenter, and plumber), at nine hundred dollars

Assistant Attorney each; in all, thirty-nine thousand three hundred and eighty dollars.

General's office.

OFFICE OF ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL: Assistant attorney,

three thousand dollars ; two assistant attorneys, at two thousand

seven hundred and fifty dollars each; four assistant attorneys, at two thousand five hundred dollars each (one transferred from Secre-

tary's office) ; seven assistant attorneys, at two thousand two hundred

and fifty dollars each (four transferred from Secretary's office) ; eleven assistant attorneys, at two thousand dollars each (two trans-

ferred from Board of Pension Appeals) ; medical expert, two thousand

dollars (transferred from Board of Pension Appeals) ; four clerks - of

class three, one of whom shall act as stenographer and one of whom
shall be a stenographer and typewriter ; clerk of class one; in all,
sixty-five thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars. Board of Pension Appeals transferred On and after July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, the duties

fofrfoicme. Secretary's theretofore performed by the Board of Pension Appeals shall be transferred to, and be performed by, the office of the Assistant

Attorney General for the Department of the Interior. Per diem, etc., spe- For per diem in lieu of subsistence of two special inspectors, cial inspectors.

Department of the Interior, while traveling on duty, at a rate to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior not exceeding three dollars

per day, and for actual necessary expenses of transportation (including temporary employment of stenographers, typewriters, and other assistance outside of the District of Columbia, and for incidental

expenditures necessary to the efficient conduct of examinations), to

be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, four

thousand dollars.

Traveling, etc., expenses, inspectors.

For traveling expenses of six inspectors, at three dollars per day,

when actually employed on duty in the field, exclusive of transporta-

tion and sleeping-car fare, in lieu of all other expenses now authorized

by law, and for incidental expenses of negotiation, inspection, and

investigation, including telegraphing and expenses to and going from

the seat of government and while remaining there under orders and

direction of the Secretary of the Interior, for a period not to exceed twenty days, nine thousand six hundred dollars. General Land Office. GENERAL LAND OFFICE: Commissioner of the General Land Office,

five thousand dollars ; assistant commissioner, three thousand five

hundred dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1215

chief law clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; two law clerks, at two thousand two hundred dollars each ; three law examiners of surveyors general and district land offices, at two thousand dollars
each; recorder, two thousand dollars ; chief of division of surveys, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; chief of division, two thousand four hundred dollars; ten chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; assistant chief of division, two thousand dollars ; thirteen law examiners, at two thousand dollars each; ten law examiners, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; eighteen la examiners, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; twentyseven clerks of class four; fifty-one clerks of class three ; seventy-four clerks of class two ; seventy-seven clerks of class one; sixty-five clerks, at one thousand dollars each; sixty-five copyists ; twenty-six copyists, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two messengers; ten assistant messengers ; six skilled laborers, who may act as assistant messengers when required, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; sixteen laborers ; laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; packer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; depositary acting for the commissioner as receiver of public moneys, two thousand dollars ; clerk and librarian, one thousand dollars ; in all, six hundred and twenty-one thousand eight hundred and seventy dollars.
For per diem in lieu of subsistence of examiners and of clerks Per diem, etc., indetailed to investigate fraudulent land entries, trespasses on the pub- vestigations.
lic lands, and cases of official misconduct, while traveling on duty, at a rate to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior, not exceeding four
dollars per day, and for actual necessary expenses of transportation, including necessary sleeping-car fares, and for employment of stenographers and other assistants when necessary to the efficient conduct of examinations, and when authorized by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, eight thousand five hundred dollars. For law books for the law library of the General Land Office, four Law books.
hundred dollars. For connected and separate United States and other maps, pre- Maps.
pared in the General Land Office, twenty thousand dollars : Provided, PDriosvtriisbo.ution. That of the United States maps procured hereunder seven thousand two hundred copies shall be delivered to the Senate and fourteen thousand four hundred copies shall be delivered to the House of Representatives, five hundred copies shall be delivered to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and the residue shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Interior for distribution. And all maps delivered to the Senate and House of Representatives hereunder shall be mounted with rollers ready for use.
For separate State and Territorial maps, prepared in the General maStpast:eandTerritorial Land Office, two thousand dollars.
For appliances in connection with filing system in the General Filing appliances. Land Office, three thousand dollars.
INDIAN OFFICE: Commissioner of Indian Affairs, five thousand PIonsdti, aPn13Of0f9i.ce. dollars ; assistant commissioner, three thousand five hundred dollars;
second assistant commissioner, who shall also perform the duties of chief clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; financial clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; chief of division, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; chief of division, two thousand dollars; assistant chief of division, two thousand dollars ; law clerk, two thousand dollars; private secretary, one thousand
eight hundred dollars; fourteen clerks of class four; twenty-five clerks of class three; twenty-four clerks of class two; two clerks, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; forty-three clerks of class one;
twenty-three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; stenographer, one thousand dollars; twenty-nine copyists ; messenger, four assistant

1216

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH . 237. ,1911.

messengers ; four messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dol-

Pension Office.

lars each ; in all, two hundred and thirty-one thousand seven hundred and ten dollars...
PENSION OFFICE : Commissioner of Pensions, five thousand dollars ; Deputy Commissioner, three thousand six hundred dollars ;

Second Deputy Commissioner, three thousand six hundred dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; medical referee, three thousand dollars ; assist

ant medical referee, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; two qualified surgeons, at two thousand dollars each ; fifteen medical

examiners, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; eight chiefs' of division, at two thousand dollars each ; law clerk, two thousand

two hundred and fifty dollars ; chief of board of review, two thousand

two hundred and fifty dollars ; fifty-seven principal examiners, at two thousand dollars each ; private secretary, to be selected and

appointed by the Commissioner of Pensions, two thousand dollars; sixteen assistant chiefs of division, at one thousand eight hundred

dollars each; three stenographers, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; ninety-five clerks of class four; one hundred clerks of class three ; two hundred and seventy-five clerks of class two ; two hundred and ninety-five clerks of class one ; sixty-five clerks, at one thousand dollars each; thirty copyists; twenty-seven messengers ; twelve assistant messengers ; seventeen skilled laborers, at six hundred and

sixty dollars each ; twenty messenger boys, at four hundred dollars each ; and for the following for care of buildings under the chief clerk of the Interior Department, namely, superintendent of building, one

thousand four hundred dollars ; two engineers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; three firemen; twenty-three laborers ; ten

female laborers, at four hundred dollars each; fifteen charwomen ;

painter, skilled in his trade, nine hundred dollars ; cabinetmaker, skilled in his trade, nine hundred dollars ; captain of the watch, eight

hundred and forty dollars ; three sergeants of the watch, at seven hundred and fifty dollars each ; twenty watchmen; in all, one million

four hundred and eighty-three thousand six hundred and twenty

dollars.

Per diem, etc., investigations.

For per diem, when absent from home and traveling on duty out-

side the District of Columbia, for special examiners or other persons

employed in the Bureau of Pensions, detailed for the purpose of making special investigations pertaining to said bureau, in lieu of expenses for subsistence, not exceeding three dollars per day, and for actual

and necessary expenses for transportation and assistance, and any

other necessary expenses, including telegrams, two hundred and

fifteen thousand dollars. Card-index system. For continuing the installation of the card-index system of the

records of the Pension Office, ten thousand dollars.

Additional special

examiners.

For an additional force of forty-five special examiners for one year,

at one thousand three hundred dollars each, fifty-eight thousand five

Patent Office.

hundred dollars, and no person so appointed shall be employed in the State from which he is appointed ; and any of those now employed in the Pension Office or as special examiners may be reappointed if they be found to be qualified.
PATENT OFFICE: Commissioner of Patents, five thousand dollars ;

first assistant commissioner, who shall perform such duties pertaining to the office of commissioner as may be assigned to him by the commissioner, four thousand five hundred dollars; assistant commissioner,

who shall perform such duties pertaining to the office of commissioner as may be assigned to him by the commissioner, three thousand five

hundred dollars ; chief clerk, who shall be qualified to act as principal examiner, three thousand dollars ; two law examiners, at two thou-

sand seven hundred and fifty dollars each ; three examiners in chief,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1217

at three thousand five hundred dollars each; examiner of interferences, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; examiner of trade-

marks and designs, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; six assistant

examiners of trade-marks and designs, at one thousand five hundred dollars each ; examiner of classification , three thousand six hundred

dollars; forty-three principal examiners, at two thousand seven hundred dollars each; sixty-three first assistant examiners, at two thousand four hundred dollars each ; seventy-three second assistant examiners, at two thousand one hundred dollars each ; eighty-eight third assistant examiners, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; one hundred and ten fourth assistant examiners, at one thousand five

hundred dollars each; financial clerk, who shall give bonds in such amount as the Secretary of the Interior may determine, two thousand

two hundred and fifty dollars ; librarian, two thousand dollars ; six chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; three assistant chiefs

of division, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; privatesecretary, to be selected and appointed by the Commissioner of Patents, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; translator of languages, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; nine clerks of class four ; nine clerks of class three ; seventeen clerks of class two ; one hundred and thirty clerks of class one; three skilled draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; four draftsmen, at one thousand dollars each ;

ninety clerks, at one thousand dollars each; messenger and property clerk, one thousand dollars ; ninety copyists ; fifty copyists, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; four messengers; twenty-five assistant messengers ; fourteen laborers, at six hundred dollars each; forty-five laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; forty messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, one million three hundred and eleven thousand and ten dollars.

For purchase of professional and scientific books and expense of Books, etc. transporting publications of patents issued by the Patent Office to foreign governments, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For purchase of law and other reference books, five hundred dollars.

For producing copies of the weekly issue of patents, designs, and suCeospolfepsaotfenwtese,keltyc.is trade-marks; for the reproduction of copies of drawings and specifi-

cations of exhausted patents and other papers ; one hundred and

forty thousand dollars.

For investigating the question of the public use or sale of inventions,inIvnevnetsitoingsa,teitncg. use of

for two years or more prior to filing applications for patents, and for

expense attending defense of suits instituted against the Commissioner

ofPatents, five hundred dollars.

For

the

share

of

the

United

States

in the

expense

of

conducting International Bureau, Berne.

the International Bureau at Berne, Switzerland, seven hundred and

fifty dollars.

BUREAU OF EDUCATION: Commissioner of Education, five thousand tiBonu.reau of Educa-

dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; specialist in higher educa-

tion,

three thousand

dollars ;

for

the investigation

of rural education,

Investigating etc.,education.

rural,

industrial education, and school hygiene, including salaries, six thou-

sand dollars; editor, two thousand dollars; statistician, one thousand

eight hundred dollars; specialist in charge of land-grant college sta-

tistics, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; translator, one thousand

eight hundred dollars ; collector and compiler of statistics, two thousand four hundred dollars; specialist in foreign educational systems,

one thousand eight hundred dollars ; specialist in educational systems,

one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two clerks of class four; three clerks of class three; four clerks of class two; eight clerks of class one;

seven clerks, at one thousand dollars each; six copyists; two copyists,

at eight hundred dollars each ; copyist, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; two skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; messenger; assistant messenger; three laborers, at four hundred and

1218

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Library.

eighty dollars each; laborer, four hundred dollars ; in all, seventytwo thousand eight hundred dollars.
For books for library, current educational periodicals, other current

publications, and completing valuable sets of periodicals, including

payment in advance for subscriptions to publications, five hundred

dollars.

Special reports.

For collecting statistics for special reports and circulars of informa-

tion, four thousand dollars.

Distributing documents, etc.

For the purchase, distribution, and exchange of educational docu-

ments, and for the collection, exchange, and cataloguing of educa-

Superintendent Capitol, etc.

tional apparatus and appliances, text-books , and educational reference books, articles of school furniture and models of school buildings illustrative of foreign and domestic systems and methods of education, and for repairing the same, two thousand five hundred dollars. of OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE CAPITOL BUILDING AND
GROUNDS : Superintendent of the Capitol Building and Grounds, six thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; chief electrical

engineer, three thousand dollars ; civil engineer, two thousand four hundred dollars ; two draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars

each ; clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; stenographer and

typewriter, one thousand dollars ; compensation to disbursing clerk, one thousand dollars ; messenger; person in charge of the heating of

the Supreme Court and central portion of the Capitol, one thousand dollars; laborer in charge of water-closets in central portion of the

Capitol, six hundred and sixty dollars; seven laborers for cleaning Rotunda, corridors, Dome, and old library portion of Capitol, at six

hundred and sixty dollars each; two laborers in charge of public closets of the House of Representatives and in the terrace, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; bookkeeper and accountant, one

thousand eight hundred dollars, and one stenographer at seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars ; in all , thirty thousand four hundred and
eighty dollars. Contingent expenses. CONTINGENT EXPENSES, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR: The fol-

Furniture, etc.

lowing sums, which shall be so apportioned as to prevent deficiencies therein, namely :
For contingent expenses of the office of the Secretary of the Interior and the bureaus, offices, and buildings of the Interior Department, including seven thousand five hundred dollars for the Civil Service Commission : For furniture, carpets, ice, lumber, hardware, dry goods, advertising, telegraphing, expressage, wagons, and harness, motor trucks, food and shoeing of horses, diagrams, awnings, constructing model and other cases and furniture, and other absolutely necessary expenses, including fuel and lights, typewriting machines

Stationery, etc.

and exchange of same, one hundred and twenty-two thousand dollars.
For stationery, including tags, labels, index cards, cloth-lined

wrappers, and specimen bags, printed in the course of manufacture, and such printed envelopes as are not supplied under contracts made

by the Postmaster General, for the Department of the Interior and its

Books, etc.

several bureaus and offices, including not to exceed five thousand dollars for the Civil Service Commission, sixty-nine thousand five hundred dollars.
For professional and scientific books, law books, and books to

complete broken sets, periodicals, directories, and other books of reference relating to the business of the department, one thousand

dollars, of which sum two hundred and fifty dollars may be used for

the Civil Service Commission.

Rent.

For rent of buildings for the Department of the Interior, namely :

For Geological Survey, twenty-nine thousand two hundred dollars ;

additional rooms for the engraving and printing divisions of the

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1219

Geological Survey, one thousand two hundred dollars ; rent of additional rooms for the Geological Survey, two thousand five hundred dollars; Civil Service Commission, sixteen thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That only ten thousand dollars of this amount shall

Proviso. Temporary occu-

be available pro rata until the commission and any bureaus of the paAnte, p. 795. Interior Department now occupying rented quarters shall occupy

the building of which rental is authorized in volume thirty-six, Statutes at Large, chapter three hundred and eighty-five, page

seven hundred and ninety-five; in all, forty-nine thousand four hundred dollars.

For rent of basement of the addition to the main building of the

Geological Survey, required for additional storage of documents, maps, and so forth, and for workroom, one thousand five hundred dollars.

For rent of additional office accommodations for the Geological

Survey in the main building of the survey, Washington, District of
Columbia (formerly occupied by the Reclamation Service) , three thousand dollars.

For rent of building northeast corner Eighth and G streets northwest for the Bureau of Mines, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
For postage stamps for the Department of the Interior and its

bureaus, as required under the Postal Union, to prepay postage on

matter addressed to Postal Union countries, three thousand five hundred dollars.

SURVEYORS GENERAL AND THEIR OLERKS.

Surveyors general.

For surveyor general and ex officio secretary of the district of Alaska, four thousand dollars; clerks in his office, seven thousand dollars; in all, eleven thousand dollars.
For rent of offices for surveyor general, pay of messenger, stationery, printing, binding, drafting instruments, typewriters, books of reference for office use, furniture, fuel, lights, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of the Territory of Arizona, two thousand five hundred dollars; and for the clerks in his office, thirteen thousand dollars; in all, fifteen thousand five hundred dollars.
For rent of office for the surveyor general, stationery, binding records, books of reference for office use, typewriter and repairs,
repairs of furniture, freight and drayage, filing cases, drafting supplies and tables, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand eight hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of California, three thousand dollars ; and for the clerks in his office, eleven thousand four hundred dollars; in all, fourteen thousand four hundred dollars.
For pay of messenger, stationery, binding records, repairing maps, repairs to locks, clocks, furniture, batteries, and typewriter, towels, telephone, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of the State of Colorado, three thousand dollars; and for the clerks of his office, twenty-two thousand dollars ; in all, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For rent of office for the surveyor general, pay of messenger, stationery, printing and binding, furniture and repairs, muslin for mounting plats, drafting instruments, record books, indexing volumes of letters, ice, telephone, post-office box rent and register stamps, books of reference for office use, typewriter, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, five thousand dollars.

Alaska. Arizona. California. Colorado.

· 1220 Idaho. Montana. Nevada. New Mexico.
Oregon. South Dakota. Utah. Washington. Wyoming.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

For surveyor general of Idaho, three thousand dollars, and for the clerks in his office, fifteen thousand dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand dollars.

For pay of messenger, stationery, binding, printing, drafting instru-
ments, post-office box rent, furniture, typewriters, ice, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of Montana, three thousand dollars ; and for the clerks in his office, twenty thousand dollars ; in all, twenty-three thousand dollars.

For pay of messenger, lights, post-office box rent, ice, stationery, printing, binding, furniture, books of reference for office use, and

other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters,

one thousand five hundred dollars.

3

For surveyor general of Nevada, three thousand dollars ; and for

the clerks in his office, seven thousand dollars ; in all, ten thousand dollars.

For stationery, and drawing materials, post-office box rent, registering letters, telephone, ice, repair of furniture, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand dollars.

For surveyor general of the Territory of New Mexico, two thousand five hundred dollars ; and for clerks in his office, fifteen thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand dollars.
For pay of messenger, stationery, printing, drafting instruments,
plats, drawing paper, binding records, telephone, registration of letters, post-office box rent, drayage, towels, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of Oregon, three thousand dollars; and for the clerks in his office, thirteen thousand dollars ; in all, sixteen thousand dollars.

For stationery, telephone, towels, binding, post-office box rent, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses,
including the exchange of typewriters, nine hundred dollars. For surveyor general of South Dakota, two thousand dollars.
For rent of office for the surveyor general, pay of messengers,
stationery supplies, drafting instruments, fuel, ice, binding records, post-office box rent, telegrams, registration of letters, towels, furniture and typewriter repairs, books of reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, three hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of Utah, three thousand dollars ; and for the clerks in his office, twelve thousand dollars; in all, fifteen thousand dollars.

For pay of janitor, stationery, plats and supplies, printing and

binding, drawing tables, drafting instruments, post-office box rent, typewriters, drayage, towels, books of reference for office use, and

other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand dollars.

For surveyor general of Washington, three thousand dollars ; and

for the clerks in his office, eleven thousand dollars ; in all, fourteen

thousand dollars.

3

=

For rent of office for the surveyor general, pay of janitor, furniture and repairs, stationery, binding records, books, blanks, books of

reference for office use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For surveyor general of Wyoming, three thousand dollars ; and for the clerks in his office, fifteen thousand dollars; in all, eighteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 237. 1911 .

1221

For pay of messenger, stationery and supplies, lights, printing, binding, books, post-office box rent, drafting instruments, mounting maps, ice, towels, furniture and repairs, books of reference for office
use, and other incidental expenses, including the exchange of typewriters, one thousand dollars.
That no expenses chargeable to the foregoing appropriations for hiRrees,terticc.tion on clerk clerk hire and incidental expenses, in the offices of the surveyors general, shall be incurred by the respective surveyors general in the conduct of said offices, except upon previous specific authorization bv. the Commissioner of the General Land Office.

POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT.

Post Office Department.

OFFICE POSTMASTER GENERAL: For Postmaster General, twelve : GePnaeryalo,fclPeorskst,meatsct.er thousand dollars; chief clerk, Post Office Department, including five.

hundred dollars as superintendent of Post Office Department build-

ings, four thousand dollars ; private secretary, two thousand five hundred dollars ; disbursing clerk, two thousand two hundred and

fifty dollars; bookkeeper and accountant, one thousand eight hun-

dred dollars; two stenographers, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; appointment clerk, two thousand dollars; clerk, assistant to

chief clerk, two thousand dollars; two clerks of class four; five clerks

of class three (including assistant printing clerk) ; six clerks of class two; three clerks of class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars

each; curator of museum, one thousand dollars ; three clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; telephone switchboard operator; assistant

telephone switchboard operator; messenger in charge of mails, nine hundred dollars; messenger; two assistant messengers; page, three

hundred and sixty dollars; engineer, one thousand four hundred dol- meEnn,gientce.ers, watchlars; eight assistant engineers, at one thousand dollars each; elec->

trician, one thousand four hundred dollars; two assistant electricians,

at one thousand two hundred dollars each; three dynamo tenders, at nine hundred dollars each; fireman, who shall be a blacksmith, and

fireman, who shall be a steam fitter, at nine hundred dollars each;

ten elevator conductors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each;

seventeen firemen; carpenter, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

carpenter, one thousand dollars ; two carpenters, at nine hundred dollars each; captain of the watch, one thousand dollars; additional

to two watchmen acting as lieutenants of watchmen, at one hundred

and twenty dollars each; thirty-one watchmen; foreman of laborers,

eight hundred dollars; forty-five laborers; plumber, and awning maker, at nine hundred dollars each; female laborer, five hundred

and forty dollars; three female laborers, at five hundred dollars each;

three female laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; forty-

five charwomen; in all, one hundred and seventy-seven thousand

one hundred and ninety dollars.

Division

of Post-office Inspectors :

Chief inspector, four thousand

dol-

Chief post-office inspector, clerks, etc.

lars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; three clerks of class four; eight

clerks of class three; twelve clerks of class two ; sixteen clerks of class

one; fourteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each; fifteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; three assistant messengers ; laborer; in all,

ninety thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

Division of the Purchasing Agent: Purchasing agent, four thousand clPeurrksc,heatsc.ing agent, dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand dollars; clerk of class four ; clerk

of class three; clerk of class two; two clerks of class one; two clerks,

at one thousand dollars each; assistant messenger; actual and necessary expenses of the purchasing agent while traveling on business of

the Post Office Department, five hundred dollars ; in all, sixteen thousand four hundred and twenty dollars.

Division of Assistant Attorney General for the Post-Office GeAnsesriaslt'asndtivAitstionr.ney Department: Assistant attorney, two thousand seven hundred and

* 88740°-vol 36, PT 1--11----79

1222

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

fifty dollars; assistant attorney, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class four; law clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk of

class three; three clerks of class two ; clerk of class one; clerk, one thousand dollars ; clerk, nine hundred dollars ; assistant messenger; in

First Assistant Post- all, nineteen thousand seven hundred and seventy dollars. masterGeneral, super- OFFICE FIRST ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL: First Assistant intendents,clerks, etc. Postmaster General, five thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand

five hundred dollars ; superintendent division of salaries and allow-

ances, four thousand dollars; assistant superintendent division of salaries and allowances, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ;

chief, division of correspondence, two thousand dollars ; eight clerks of

class four; seven clerks of class three; eleven clerks of class two; eight clerks of class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; eight

clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; four assistant messengers ; laborer; two pages, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ;

in all, eighty-two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars.

Appointments division.

Division of postmasters' appointments : Superintendent, three thou-

sand dollars; two assistants, at two thousand dollars each ; three clerks

of class four; fourteen clerks of class three ; ten clerks of class two ; six

clerks of class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; two messengers; in all, sixty-three

thousand four hundred and eighty dollars. siCoint. y delivery divi- Division of city delivery : Superintendent, three thousand dollars ;
assistant superintendent, two thousand dollars ; three clerks of class

three; two clerks of class two ; seven clerks of class one; four clerks,

at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each;

messenger; laborer; in all,. twenty-eight thousand three hundred

dollars.

Second Assistant Postmaster General,

OFFICE SECOND ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL: Second Assist-

clerks, etc. Railway

adjust- ant Postmaster General, five thousand dollars ;

chief clerk, two thou-

ments division.

sand five hundred dollars ; superintendent division of railway

adjustments, three thousand dollars; assistant superintendent division

of railway adjustments, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; sioFno.reign mails divi- superintendent division of foreign mails, three thousand dollars

assistant superintendent division of foreign mails, two thousand dol-

lars ; superintendent division of inspection, two thousand dollars ;

superintendent division of contracts, two thousand dollars ; superintendent division of equipment, two thousand dollars; fourteen clerks of class four; forty-one clerks of class three; thirty-four clerks of

class two; twenty-eight clerks of class one; sixteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each; seven clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; messenger in charge of mails, nine hundred dollars ; seven assistant messengers ; page, four hundred and eighty dollars , in all, two hun-

dred and twenty-four thousand four hundred and seventy dollars.

Railway Mail Serv-

ice division.

Division of Railway Mail Service : General superintendent, four

thousand dollars; assistant general superintendent, three thousand

five hundred dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; two clerks

of class four; five clerks of class three; six clerks of class two; five

clerks of class one ; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; two

clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; in all, forty thousand three

hundred dollars.

Third Assistant

Postmaster General, OFFICE THIRD Assistant POSTMASTER General : Third Assistant

clerks, etc. Stamps division.

Postmaster General, five thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand

Finance division. five hundred dollars ; superintendent Division of. Stamps, two thou-

sand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; superintendent Division of

Finance, who shall give bond in such amount as the Postmaster Gen-

eral may determine for the faithful discharge of his duties, two thou-

sand two hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant superintendent Division siColna.ssification divi of Finance, two thousand dollars ; superintendent, Division of Classi-
fication, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; chief Division

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 237. 1911.

1223

of Redemption, two thousand dollars ; superintendent Division of visRieogni.stered mails diRegistered Mails, two thousand five hundred dollars; nine clerks of class four; twenty-three clerks of class three; thirty-two clerks of class two; forty-four clerks of class one ; twenty-eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each; eighteen clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; five, assistant messengers; twelve laborers ; page, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, two hundred and twenty-nine thousand two hundred and seventy dollars.
Division of Money Orders: Superintendent, three thousand five siMono.ney-orders divihundred dollars; chief clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; three clerks of class four; seven clerks of class three; eleven clerks of class two ; eleven clerks of class one; ten clerks, at one thousand dollars each; ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; assistant · messenger; and four laborers; in all, seventy-three thousand three hundred and ten dollars.
OFFICE FOURTH ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL: Fourth Assist- PoFsotumrasttheArssGiesnetraanlt, ant Postmaster General, five thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thou- clerks, etc.
sand five hundred dollars; superintendent, Division of Rural Mails, sioRnural mails divithree thousand dollars ; assistant superintendent, Division of Rural Mails, two thousand dollars ; four clerks of class four; three clerks of class three; twelve clerks of class two ; thirty clerks of class one;
stenographer, one thousand six hundred dollars; stenographer, one thousand two hundred dollars; thirty-nine clerks, at one thousand dollars, each; eight clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; two messen-
gers; assistant messenger; two laborers; two pages, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, one hundred and thirty thousand seven hundred and forty dollars.
Division of dead letters: Superintendent, two thousand seven hun- siDone.ad letters dividred and fifty dollars; clerk of class four, who shall be chief clerk; five clerks of class four; eight clerks of class three; ten clerks of class two; thirty-four clerks of class one; thirty-eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each; thirty-nine clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; messenger; three assistant messengers; fifteen laborers ; six female
laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; in all, one hundred and seventy thousand and thirty dollars.
Division of Supplies : Superintendent, two thousand five hundred Supplies division. dollars; assistant superintendent, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class four (one in lieu of printing clerk transferred from office of the Postmaster General) ; three clerks.of class three ; eleven clerks of class
two ; eighteen clerks of class one; sixteen clerks, at one thousand
dollars each; eight clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; eleven assistant messengers ; eighteen laborers ; page, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, ninety-four thousand one hundred dollars. Topography divi-
Division of Topography: For topographer, two thousand seven o hundred and fifty dollars ; assistant topographer, two thousand dollars ; four skilled draftsmen, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; four skilled draftsmen, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; four skilled draftsmen, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; five skilled draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; examiner, one thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk of class two; map mounter, one thousand two hundred dollars ; mechanic, one thousand dollars; seven copyists of maps, at one thousand dollars each ; four copyists of maps, at nine hundred dollars each; assistant map mounter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; assistant messenger; in all, forty-six thousand seven hundred and ninety dollars.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT: For stationery Contingentexpenses.
and blank books, index and guide cards, folders, and binding devices, including amount necessary for the purchase of free penalty envelopes, twenty thousand dollars.

1224

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

Heating, etc., plant. For fuel and repairs to heating, lighting, and power plant, including repairs to elevators, the purchase of tools and electrical supplies, and removal of ashes, thirty-five thousand dollars.

For gas and electric lights, three hundred and fifty dollars. For telegraphing, four thousand five hundred dollars.

For painting, three thousand dollars.

Miscellaneous.

For purchase, exchange, hire, and keeping of horses and wagons, and repair of wagons and harness, to be used only for official purposes, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For miscellaneous items, including the exchange of typewriters,

adding machines, and other labor-saving devices ; plumbing, floor coverings; and postage stamps for correspondence addressed abroad

which is not exempt under Article Eleven of the Rome convention

of the Universal Postal Union, twenty-five thousand dollars, of which

sum not exceeding three thousand nine hundred and eighty-five

dollars may be expended for telephone service, and not exceeding

one thousand five hundred dollars may be expended for law books,

books of reference, railway guides, city directories, and books neces-

sary to conduct the business of the department; and not exceeding

two thousand three hundred dollars may be expended for repairs to copper roof, down spouts, and drains, Post Office Department

Furniture, etc. Rent.

Building. For furniture and filing cabinets, ten thousand dollars. For rent of a suitable building for storage of the files of the Post

Office Department, three thousand dollars.

For rent of stable, five hundred dollars.
Official Postal Guide. For the publication of copies of the Official Postal Guide, including

Post-route maps.

not exceeding three thousand copies for the use of the executive departments, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For miscellaneous expenses in the Division of Topography in the

preparation and publication of post-route maps and rural-delivery

maps or blueprints, including tracing for photolithographic reproduc-

Sale.

tion, twenty-six thousand dollars. And the Postmaster General may

authorize the sale to the public of post-route maps and rural-delivery

maps or blueprints at the cost of printing and ten per centum thereof added, the proceeds of such sales to be used as a further appropria-

tion for the preparation and publication of post-route maps and ruraldelivery maps or blueprints . Of this amount one hundred dollars

may be expended in the purchase of atlases, geographical and tech-

nical works needed in the Division of Topography.

Restriction on postal service appropria.

No part of any appropriations made for the service of the Post

tions. Vol. 5, p. 80.

Office Department in conformity with the Act of July second, eight-

een hundred and thirty-six, shall be expended for any of the purposes

herein provided for on account of the Post Office Department at Washington, District of Columbia.

Department of Justice.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Pay of Attorney General, Solicitor OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL: Attorney General, twelve eGtecn.eral, Assistants, thousand dollars ; Solicitor General, ten thousand dollars ; assistant to
the Attorney General, seven thousand dollars ; seven Assistant Attor-
neys General, at five thousand dollars each; Assistant Attorney General of the Post Office Department, five thousand dollars; Solicitor of Internal Revenue, five thousand dollars ; Solicitor for the Department anAttst, oetrcn.eys, assist of State, five thousand dollars ; three attorneys, at five thousand dollars each ; one attorney, three thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; two attorneys, at three thousand five hundred dollars each;
attorney, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; twelve attor-
neys, at three thousand dollars each ; attorney, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant attorney, three thousand five hundred dollars ; two assistant attorneys, at three thousand dollars each ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

1225

two assistant attorneys, at two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars each; five assistant attorneys, at two thousand five hundred

dollars each; assistant attorney, two thousand four hundred dollars; two assistant attorneys, at two thousand dollars each; attorney in charge of titles, three thousand five hundred dollars; assistant examiner of titles, two thousand dollars ; chief clerk and ex officio super-

intendent of the buildings, three thousand dollars ; superintendent of buildings, five hundred dollars ; private secretary and assistant to

the Attorney General, three thousand dollars ; clerk to the Attorney General, one thousand six hundred dollars; stenographer to the Solicitor General, one thousand six hundred dollars; three law clerks , at two thousand dollars each; two law clerks of class four; clerk in office of the Solicitor of Internal Revenue, one thousand eight nun-

Clerks, etc.

dred dollars; attorney in charge of pardons, three thousand dollars : superintendent of prisons, four thousand dollars; disbursing clerk, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; appointment clerk, two thousand dollars ; chief of Division of Investigation, three thousand five hundred dollars; three examiners, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; four examiners, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each; two examiners, at two thousand dollars each ; three examiners, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; librarian, one thousand eight hundred dollars; eight clerks of class four; twelve clerks of class three; seven clerks of class two; sixteen clerks

Examiners, etc.

of class one; fifteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; twenty-two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; chief messenger, one thousand meMnes,seetcn.gers, watchdollars; packer, nine hundred dollars; messenger, nine hundred and sixty dollars; five messengers ;thirteen assistant messengers; seven laborers; seven watchmen; engineer, one thousand two hundred

dollars ; two assistant engineers, at nine hundred dollars each; four
firemen; two conductors of the elevator, at seven hundred and twenty
dollars each; head charwoman, four hundred and eighty dollars; twenty-two charwomen. Division of Accounts: Chief of Division Accounts division. of Accounts, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief bookkeeper and record clerk, two thousand dollars ; three clerks of class four;
four clerks of class three; six clerks of class two; five clerks of class one; two clerks, at-nine hundred dollars each; in all, four hundred and nineteen thousand and ten dollars.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE : For furniture Contingent expenses.

and repairs, including carpets, file holders, and cases, four thousand five hundred dollars."

For books for law library of the department, three thousand dollars. For purchase of session laws and statutes of the States and Territories for library of department, five hundred dollars. For books for office of Solicitor of the Department of Commerce and Labor, three hundred dollars. For stationery for department and its several bureaus, six thousand five hundred dollars. For miscellaneous expenditures, including telegraphing, fuel, lights, foreign postage, labor, repairs of buildings, care of grounds, books of reference, periodicals, typewriters and adding machines and exchange of same, and other necessaries, directly ordered by the Attorney General, twenty-five thousand dollars. For official transportation, including purchase and exchange, keep, and shoeing of animals, and purchase, exchange, and repairs of wagons and harness, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For the rent of buildings and parts of buildings in the District of Rent.
Columbia used by the Department of Justice, twenty-six thousand seven hundred dollars.
OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR OF THE TREASURY : Solicitor of the TrSeoasluircyi, tcloerrkso,fettch.e

Treasury, five thousand dollars ; Assistant Solicitor, three thousand

1226

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand dollars; two law clerks, at two

thousand dollars each ; two docket clerks, at two thousand dollars

each; two clerks of class four; two clerks of class three; two clerks

of class two; assistant messenger ; laborer ; in all, twenty-eight

thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars.

For law books for office of the Solicitor of the Treasury, four

hundred and fifty dollars.

Solicitor of Department of Commerce

OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

and Labor, clerks, etc. AND LABOR: Solicitor of the Department of Commerce and Labor,

five thousand dollars ; Assistant Solicitor, three thousand dollars ;

three clerks of class four; two clerks of class three; three clerks of

class two ; three clerks of class one; messenger; in all, twenty-five

thousand two hundred and forty dollars.

Department ofCommerce and Labor.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR .

Pay of Secretary, Assistant, clerks, etc.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY: Secretary of Commerce and Labor,

twelve thousand dollars ; one Assistant Secretary, five thousand

dollars; private secretary to the Secretary , two thousand five hundred

dollars; confidential clerk to the Secretary, one thousand eight

hundred dollars ; private secretary to Assistant Secretary, two thou-

sand one hundred dollars ; chief clerk and superintendent, three thousand dollars; disbursing clerk, three thousand dollars; Chief of

Appointment Division, two thousand five hundred dollars ; Chief, Division of Publications, two thousand five hundred dollars ; Chief,

Division of Supplies, two thousand one hundred dollars ; ten clerks of class four; eleven clerks of class three; thirteen clerks of class two; twelve clerks of class one ; eleven clerks, at one thousand dollars each

(including one transferred from Bureau of Labor) ; six clerks at nine

Messengers, etc.

hundred dollars each; two telephone operators, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; messenger to the Secretary, one thousand

dollars; five messengers ; ten assistant messengers (including one transferred from Bureau of Manufactures) ; seven messenger boys,

at four hundred and eighty dollars each; engineer, one thousand

dollars ; three skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars

each; two conductors of elevators, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; two firemen, at six hundred and sixty dollars each;

eighteen laborers (including transfers of one from Bureau of Manufactures, one from Bureau of Lighthouses, and one from Bureau of

Statistics, and six hostlers, at six hundred and sixty dollars, omitted ) ;

five laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each_(including two

at six hundred and sixty dollars each from Bureau of Labor, and one at six hundred and sixty dollars from Bureau of Manufactures

dropped) ; cabinetmaker, one thousand dollars ; carpenter, nine hundred dollars ; chief watchman, nine hundred dollars; eleven watch-

men (including three transferred from Bureau of Labor) ; eighteen

charwomen (including three transferred from Bureau of Labor) ; in

all, one hundred and seventy-three thousand nine hundred dollars.

Special commercial

agents.

For compensation at not more than ten dollars per day and actual

necessary traveling expenses of commercial agents to investigate trade

conditions abroad and in the United States, including the insular

possessions, with the object of promoting the foreign commerce of the United States, sixty thousand dollars ; and the results of such investi-

gations shall be reported to Congress.

Bureau of Corporations.

BUREAU OF CORPORATIONS : Commissioner of Corporations, five

thousand dollars ; deputy commissioner, three thousand five hundred

dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; clerk to

commissioner, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; four clerks of

class four; four clerks of class three ; six clerks of class two; ten

clerks of class one ; fifteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each ;

sixteen copyists ; messenger; assistant messenger; three messenger

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1227

boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; in all, seventy-nine thousand two hundred dollars.

For compensation and per diem, to be fixed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, of special attorneys, special examiners, and special agents, for the purpose of carrying onthe work of said bureau, as provided by the Act approved February fourteenth, nineteen hundred and three, entitled " An Act to establish the Department of Commerce and Labor," the per diem to be, subject to such rules and

Special attorneys, Vol. 32, p. 827.

regulations as the Secretary of Commerce and Labor may prescribe, in lieu of subsistence, at a rate not exceeding four dollars per day to each of said special attorneys, special examiners, and special agents,

and also of other officers and employees in the Bureau of Corporations while absent from their homes on duty outside of the District of
Columbia, and for their actual necessary traveling expenses, including necessary sleeping-car fares; in all, one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.
BUREAU OF MANUFACTURES : Chief of bureau, four thousand ,tuBruesr.eau of Manufacdollars; assistant chief of bureau, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief of division, two thousand one hundred dollars; stenographer to chief of bureau, one thousand six hundred dollars ; two clerks of class four; two clerks of class three; three clerks of class two ; four clerks of class one; four clerks, at one thousand.dollars each; five clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; two assistant messengers (one transferred to Secretary's office and one to Bureau of Labor) ; one laborer, (one transferred to Secretary's office) ; in all, thirty-six thousand six hundred dollars.

To enable the Bureau of Manufactures to collate and publish the coTuanrtirfifess. of foreign tariffs of foreign countries in the English language, with the equivalents in currency, weights, and measures of the United States of all such foreign terms used in said tariffs, and to furnish information to
Congress and the Executive relative to customs laws and regulations of foreign countries, and the purchase of books and periodicals, ten thousand dollars.

BUREAU OF LABOR: Commissioner of Labor, five thousand dollars ; chiefstatistician, who shall also perform the duties of chief clerk, three thousand dollars ; four statistical experts, at two thousand dollars each ; five clerks of class four ; five clerks of class three ; six clerks of class two; twelve clerks of class one ; nine clerks, at one thousand dollars each (one transferred to Secretary's office) ; two copyists; messenger; two assistant messengers (one transferred from Bureau of

Bureau of Labor.

Manufactures) ; two laborers (two transferred to Secretary's office) ; four special agents, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; six

special agents, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; eight special agents, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; four special agents, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; in all, one hundred and three thousand dollars.

For per diem, in lieu of subsistence, of special agents and employees while traveling on duty away from their homes and outside of the District of Columbia, at a rate not to exceed three dollars per day, and for their transportation, and for employment of experts and temporary assistance, and for traveling expenses of officers and employees, and for the purchase of reports and materials for the reports and bulletins of the Bureau of Labor, and for subvention to " International Association for Labour Legislation," and necessary expenses con-

Special agents, etc.

nected with representation of the United States Government therein, sixty-four thousand and ninety dollars.
For books, periodicals, and newspapers for the library the sum of one hundred dollars may be expended for newspapers for the purpose of procuring strike data, and the annual subscriptions for newspapers and periodicals for the bureau may be paid in advance, one thousand dollars.

Library.

1228

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Medical examina-

tions of injured em- To enable the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to provide and pay

ployees.

for the medical examination of employees of the United States receiv-

Vol. 35, p. 557.

ing compensation for injuries under the provisions of the Act of May thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight, as directed by section five of

said Act, three thousand dollars.

Bureau of Lighthouses.

BUREAU OF LIGHTHOUSES : Commissioner, five thousand dollars ;

Deputy Commissioner, four thousand dollars ; chief constructing engi-

neer, four thousand dollars ; superintendent of naval construction, three thousand dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand four hundred

dollars ; clerk, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class four ;

clerk of class three ; two clerks of class two ; six clerks of class one;

five clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; seven clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each ; clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; clerk, seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars ; messenger ; assistant messenger; two messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; assistant engi-

neer, three thousand dollars ; assistant engineer, two thousand four hundred dollars ; assistant engineer, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; draftsman, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; drafts-

man, one thousand five hundred and sixty dollars ; draftsman, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; draftsman, one thousand

Census Office.

two hundred dollars ; in all, sixty-four thousand six hundred and thirty dollars.
CENSUS OFFICE : For salaries, including the chief clerk, at three

thousand dollars per annum, and necessary expenses for preparing for, taking, compiling, and publishing the Thirteenth Census of the

United States, rent of office quarters, for carrying on during the decennial census period all other census work authorized and directed

by law, including construction and repair of card-punching, cardsorting, and card-tabulating machinery, and technical and mechan-

ical services in connection therewith, purchase, rental, construction,

repair, and exchange of mechanical appliances, to continue available until June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, one million

dollars of which sur shall be immediately available, two million five
hundred thousand dollars. Bureau of Statistics.
BUREAU OF STATISTICS : Chief of Bureau, four thousand dollars ;

chief clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; chief of divi-

sion, two thousand dollars; five clerks of class four; five clerks of class

three; clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; nine clerks of class

two; eleven clerks of class one ; thirteen clerks, at one thousand dol-

lars each; six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; messenger; assistant messenger; laborer (one transferred to Secretary's office) ; laborer,

four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, seventy-three thousand six
hundred and fifty dollars. Internaland foreign For payment of the services of experts, and for other necessary commerce.
expenditures connected with the collection of facts relative to the

internal and foreign commerce of the United States, four thousand

dollars.

Steamboat-Inspection Service.

STEAMBOAT-INSPECTION SERVICE : For Supervising Inspector Gen-

eral, four thousand dollars ; chief clerk and Acting Supervising In-

spector General in the absence of that officer, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class three ; clerk of class two ; clerk of class one; two

Salaries. Supervising spectors.

clerks, at one thousand dollars each; messenger; in all, fourteen thousand six hundred and forty dollars.
in- Salaries of steamboat inspectors : For salaries of ten supervising inspectors, at three thousand dollars each, as authorized by section

85R4.. S., sec. 4414. P. forty-four hundred and four, Revised Statutes United States ; for

Inspectors.

salaries of inspectors of hulls and inspectors of boilers, as authorized

Vol. 34, p. 106. by the Acts of Congress approved April ninth, nineteen hundred and

Vol. 35, p. 428. six, and May twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and eight, one hun-

dred and sixty-seven thousand one hundred dollars ; for salaries of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1229

assistant inspectors, as authorized by the Act of Congress approved April ninth, nineteen hundred and six, as follows: For the port of New York, New York, twenty-seven at two thousand dollars each; for the port of New Orleans, Louisiana, four at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; for the port of Baltimore, Maryland, six at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; for the port of Boston, Massachusetts; six at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; for the port of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, eight at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; for the port of San Francisco, California, eight at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; for the port of Buffalo, New York, four at one thousand six hundred dollars each; for the port of Milwaukee,' Wisconsin, eight at one thousand six hundred dollars each; for the port of Norfolk, Virginia, four.at one thousand six hundred dollars each; for the port of Seattle, Washington, eight at one thousand six hundred dollars each; in all, three hundred and forty-seven thousand one hundred' dollars.

Assistant stant inspectors.

Hereafter in the case of the absence of any supervising inspector tiToenmspofrasruypedrevsigsnian-g of steamboats from his official station the Secretary of Commerce inspectors. and Labor may designate some officer of the Steamboat-Inspection Service to perform the duties of such officer during his absence.
Clerk hire, service at large: For the compensation, not exceeding Clerkhire. one thousand five hundred dollars a year to each person, of clerks to boards of steamboat inspectors, to be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor in accordance with the provisions of the Act Vol. 34, p. 107. of April ninth, nineteen hundred and six, eighty-three thousand dollars.
Contingent expenses : For the payment of fees to United States Contingentexpenses.

marshals and witnesses ; for traveling and other expenses when on official business of the Supervising Inspector General, supervising

inspectors, local and assistant inspectors, and clerks ; for instruments,

furniture, stationery, and every other thing necessary to carry into

effect the provisions of Title fifty-two, Revised Statutes, of the Act BV.olS.. ,2T5i,tlpe. 5820.; Vol.
of April fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, amending the 24V. Po.l.820%8., p. 699; Vol. Act of June nineteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, as amended 29, p. 530.

by the Acts of March first, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, Febru-

ary fifteenth,

eighteen

hundred

and

ninety-seven,

March

third,

nine-

Vol. 33, p. 1026; 34, p. 106.

Vol.

teen hundred and five, April ninth, nineteen hundred and six, and Vol. 35, p. 428.

May twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and eight, ninety thousand dollars.

BUREAU OF NAVIGATION: Commissioner of Navigation, four thou- tiBoun.reau of Navigasand dollars ; Deputy Commissioner, two thousand four hundred dollars; chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; two clerks of class four; clerk to commissioner, one thousand six hundred dollars ; clerk of

class three; three clerks of class two; four clerks of class one ; two clerks, at one thousand dollars each; six clerks, at nine hundred dol-

lars each; two messengers ; in all, thirty-three thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.
Shipping Service: For salaries of shipping commissioners in amounts siSohneirpsp. ing commisnot exceeding the following: At Baltimore, one thousand two hun- Vol. 23, p. 59. dred dollars ; at Bath, one thousand dollars ; at Boston, three thousand dollars ; at Gloucester, six hundred dollars ; at Honolulu, one thousand two hundred dollars ; at Mobile, one thousand two hundred dollars; at New Bedford, one thousand two hundred dollars; at New Orleans, one thousand five hundred dollars ; at New York, five thousand dollars; at Norfolk, one thousand five hundred dollars; at

Pascagoula, three hundred dollars ; at Philadelphia, two thousand four hundred dollars ; at Portland, Maine, one thousand three hundred dollars ; at Port Townsend, three thousand five hundred dollars ; at Providence, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; at Rockland,

1230

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Clerk hire.

one thousand two hundred dollars ; at San Francisco, four thousand dollars; in all, thirty-one thousand nine hundred dollars.
Clerk hire : For the compensation to be fixed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor not to exceed one thousand six hundred dollars

per annum to each person, of clerks in the offices of the shipping commissioners, thirty-three thousand dollars.

Contingent expenses. Contingent expenses : For rent, stationery, and other requisites for

the transaction of the business of shipping commissioners' offices and rent of temporary quarters for the United States shipping commis-

sioner at New York, New York, not to exceed three thousand one

hundred and fifty dollars, and for janitor in his office, seven hundred

Tools, etc.

and fifty dollars ; in all, ten thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars. For tools, appliances, and instruments for the admeasurement of

Motor boats, etc. vessels and the counting of passengers, one thousand dollars. Enforcement of navigation laws : To enable the Secretary of Com-

merce and Labor to provide and operate such motor boats and employ

tiTonoleanwfso. rce naviga- thereon such persons as may be necessary for the enforcement, under

his direction by customs officers, of the laws relating to the navigation

and inspection of vessels, boarding of vessels, and counting of passen-

gers on excursion boats, fifteen thousand dollars.

Wireless communication on ocean ves-

Wireless communication : To enable the Secretary of Commerce and

sels. Ante, p. 269.

Labor to enforce the Act approved June twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled " An Act to require apparatus and operators

for radio-communication on certain ocean steamers ;" and to employ

such persons and means as may be necessary, seven thousand dollars.

Bureau of Immigration and Naturaliza-

BUREAU OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION : Commissioner

tion.

General of Immigration, five thousand dollars ; Assistant Commis-

sioner General, who shall also act as chief clerk and actuary, three

thousand five hundred dollars ; private secretary, one thousand eight

hundred dollars ; chief statistician, two thousand dollars ; three clerks

of class four ; five clerks of class three ; six clerks of class two ; eight

clerks of class one; eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; six

clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; two messengers ; assistant

messenger ; in all, fifty-nine thousand five hundred dollars.

Naturalization Division.

For the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the Act

Vol. 34, p. 596.

approved June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, entitled " An

Act to establish a Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization, and to

provide for a uniform rule for the naturalization of aliens throughout the United States," namely : Chief of Division of Naturalization,

three thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant chief of division , three

thousand dollars ; four clerks of class four ; five clerks of class three;

eight clerks of class two ; eleven clerks of class one ; eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each;

messenger; two assistant messengers ; messenger boy, four hundred

and eighty dollars ; in all, fifty-eight. thousand six hundred and sixty dollars.

Information Divi-

sion.

For Division of Information established under section forty of the

Vol. 34, p. 909. Act approved February twentieth, nineteen hundred and seven,

entitled "An Act to regulate the immigration of aliens into the United

States," namely: Chief of division, three thousand five hundred dol-

lars; assistant chief of division, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

two clerks of class four ; clerk of class three ; two clerks of class two;

three clerks of class one ; clerk, nine hundred dollars ; messenger ; in all,

nineteen thousand three hundred and forty dollars.

Bureau of Stand-

ards.

BUREAU OF STANDARDS : Director, six thousand dollars ; chief phys-

icist, four thousand eight hundred dollars ; chief chemist, four thou-

sand eight hundred dollars ; associate chemist, two thousand five

hundred dollars ; associate chemist, two thousand two hundred dollars;

two physicists, at three thousand six hundred dollars each ; associate physicist, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; three associate phys-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

1231

icists, at two thousand five hundred dollars each; three associate physicists, at two thousand two hundred dollars each; five associate physicists, at two thousand dollars each; seven assistant physicists, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; eleven assistant physicists, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; two assistant chemists, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; three assistant chemists, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; two assistant chemists, at one

thousand four hundred dollars each; fourteen assistant physicists, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; fifteen laboratory assistants,

at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; twelve laboratory assistants, at one thousand dollars each; eleven laboratory assistants, at nine hundred dollars each ; three laboratory helpers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; nine aids, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; six aids, at six hundred dollars each; six laboratory apprentices, at five hundred and forty dollars each; six laboratory apprentices, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; storekeeper, one thousand dollars ; librarian, one thousand four hundred dollars ; secretary, two thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk of class four; clerk of class three; two clerks of class two ; two clerks of class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; telephone operator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; two messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; three messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; elevator boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; chief mechanician, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; mechanician, one thousand five hundred dollars ; mechanician, one thousand four hundred dollars ; two mechanicians, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; three mechanicians, at one thousand dollars each ; mechanician, nine hundred dollars ; three watchmen; skilled woodworker, one thousand dollars; skilled woodworker, eight hundred and forty dollars; five skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; draftsman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; packer and shipper, eight hundred and fortydollars ; messenger ; superintendent of mechanical plant, two thousand five hundred dollars ; two assistant engineers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; assistant engineer, one thousand dollars ;

assistant engineer, nine hundred dollars; three firemen; glass blower, one thousand four hundred dollars ; electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; electrician, nine hundred dollars ; four laborers ; two

janitors, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; janitor, six hundred

dollars; two female laborers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ;

in all, two hundred and thirty-six thousand three hundred and forty dollars.

Hereafter in the case of the absence of the Director of the Bureau inDgesdiirgencattoir.on of actof Standards the Secretary of Commerce and Labor may designate

some officer of said bureau to perform the duties of the director during his absence.
For apparatus, machinery, tools, and appliances used in connection with the buildings or with the work of the bureau, laboratory

Apparatus, etc.

supplies, materials and supplies used in the construction of apparatus, machinery, or other appliances, including their exchange ;

piping, wiring, and construction incident to the installation of apparatus, machinery, or appliances ; furniture for laboratories and offices, cases for apparatus, fifty thousand dollars.
For repairs and necessary alterations to buildings, two thousand dollars.

Repairs.

For fuel for heat, light, and power ; office expenses, stationery, books and periodicals (subscriptions to periodicals may be paid in advance) ; traveling expenses ; expenses of the visiting committee; expenses of attendance of American member at the meeting of the

Miscellaneous.

il

1232

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911.

International Committee of Weights and Measures ; traveling expenses of two delegates to the International Committee on Elec-

trical Units and Standards, one of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Bureau of Standards ; and contingencies of all

kinds, including a vehicle for official use, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Care,etc., ofgrounds. For grading, construction of roads and walks, piping grounds for

water supply, lamps, wiring for lighting purposes, and other expenses

incident to the improvement and care of grounds, three thousand

dollars .

Electric currents. Investigating effect

For investigating the effects of electric currents upon gas and

· on pipes, etc.

water pipes, and upon the reenforced foundations of buildings,

bridges, and other structures, and for determining methods of dis-

covering and preventing the destructive effects of such currents, fifteen thousand dollars.
Structural materials For the continuation of the investigation of the structural mateInvestigation.
rials, such as stone, clays, cement, and so forth, including necessary

personal services, seventy-five thousand dollars."

Tesung machine; Pittsburg, Pa.

For completing, installing, equipping, and protecting testing

machine at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, twenty-five thousand dollars,

to be immediately available.

Testingmachines for physical constants.

For the maintenance and operation of testing machines, includ-

ing services in connection therewith, for the determination by the

Bureau of Standards of the physical constants and the properties

of materials as authorized by law, thirty thousand dollars.

Additional laboratory.

Toward the construction of a fireproof laboratory to provide

additional laboratory space, to cost not exceeding two hundred

thousand dollars, under a contract which is hereby authorized

therefor, fifty thousand dollars.

Contingent expenses. CONTINGENT EXPENSES, DEPARTMENT OF. COMMERCE AND LABOR:

For contingent and miscellaneous expenses of the offices and bureaus

of the department, for which appropriations for contingent and

miscellaneous expenses are not specifically made, including the pur-

chase of professional and scientific books, law books, books of ref-

erence, periodicals; blank books, pamphlets, maps, newspapers (not

exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars), stationery, furniture

and repairs to the same, carpets, matting, oilcloth, file cases, towels,

ice, brooms, soap, sponges, fuel, lighting and heating; for the pur-

chase, exchange, and care of horses and vehicles, to be used only for

official purposes ; freight and express charges, postage to foreign

countries, telegraph and telephone service typewriters and adding

machines, including their exchange ; repairs to the building occu-

pied by the offices of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor; storage

of documents belonging to the Bureau of Light-Houses, not to

exceed one thousand five hundred dollars, and for storage of docu-

ments belonging to the Bureau of Labor, not to exceed seven hun-

dred and fifty dollars, and all other miscellaneous items and necessary

expenses not included in the foregoing, sixty thousand dollars. Rent.
For rent of buildings and parts of buildings in the District of Colum-

Judicial.

bia for the use of the Department of Commerce and Labor, fifty thousand dollars.
JUDICIAL .

Supreme Court. Justices, etc. Post, p. 1426.

SUPREME COURT: Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, thirteen thousand dollars ; eight associate justices, at twelve thousand five hundred dollars each; marshal, four thousand five hundred dollars ; nine stenographic clerks, one for the Chief Justice and one for each associate justice, at not exceeding
two thousand dollars each ; in all, one hundred and thirty-five thousand five hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 237. 1911 .

1233

Circuit courts. CIRCUIT COURTS : Thirty-four circuit judges, at seven thousand Judges, etc.
dollars each (including judges designated for Commerce Court) ;

nine clerks of circuit courts of appeals, at three thousand five hun-

dred dollars each; messenger, to act as librarian and crier, circuit

court of appeals, eighth circuit, three thousand dollars ; in all, two

hundred and seventy-two thousand five hundred dollars. District judges.
DISTRICT COURTS: Ninety-one district judges, at six thousand

dollars each, five hundred and forty-six thousand dollars. Hawail district
DISTRICT COURT, TERRITORY OF HAWAII: Two judges, at six thou- court.

sand dollars each; clerk, three thousand dollars; reporter, one thou-

sand two hunderd dollars ; sixteen thousand two hundred dollars.

RETIRED JUDGES: To pay the salaries of the United States judges

judges. Retired . 135.

retired under section seven hundred and fourteen of the Revised Ante, p. 1161.

Statutes, so much as may be necessary for the fiscal year ending
June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, is hereby appropriated. COURT OF APPEALS, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Chief justice, seven DiCstoruirctt ofoCfolaupmpbeiaals.,

thousand five hundred dollars ; two associate justices, at seven thousand dollars each; clerk, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, and two hundred and fifty dollars additional as custodian of the Court of Appeals building; assistant or deputy clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; reporter, one thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, That the reports issued by him shall not be sold for more than five dollars per volume; crier, who shall also act as

Proviso. Reports.

stenographer and typewriter in the clerk's office when not engaged in court room, one thousand dollars ; three messengers, at seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars each; necessary expenditures in the conduct of the clerk's office, one thousand dollars ; three stenographers, one

for the chief justice and one for each associate justice, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; in all, thirty-six thousand five hundred

and ten dollars, one half of which shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia.

SUPREME COURT, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Chief justice and five triScutporfeCmoleucmobuirat,. Dis-

associate judges, at six thousand dollars each; six stenographers, one for the chief justice and one for each associate justice, at nine hun-

dred dollars each; in all, forty-one thousand four hundred dollars,

one-half of which shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia.

CLERK OF DISTRICT COURT, NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS : For erCnldeirskt,riIcltl.inois northclerk of the district court for the northern district of Illinois, author- Vol. 23, p. 204.

ized by the Act of July thirty-first, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, three thousand dollars.

STENOGRAPHER OF DISTRICT COURT, EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS: noSitseenaosgtrearnphdeirst,ricItl.ll-

The present judge of the district court for the eastern district of Illinois is authorized to appoint a stenographer, at the rate of seven hundred and twenty dollars per annum, notwithstanding the pro-
visions of section seven of the Act, approved March third, eighteen

Vol. 24, p. 555.

hundred and eighty-seven, Statutes at Large, volume twenty-four,

page five hundred and fifty-five. COMMISSIONER, YELLOWSTONE PARK: Commissioner in Yellowstone YCeolmlmoiwssstioonneePr.ark.
National Park, one thousand five hundred dollars. And the provi-
sions of section twenty-one of the legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation Act approved May twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred Vol. 29, p. 184. and ninety-six, shall not be construed as impairing the right of said commissioner to receive said salary as herein provided .
BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES OF CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS : For the coLuratws obfoaopkpse,alcsir.cuit purchase of law books and rebinding law books for the nine libraries of the United States circuit courts of appeals, to be expended under
the direction of the Attorney General upon the requisition of the court (all books purchased hereunder to be plainly marked "The property of the United States "), nine thousand five hundred dollars.

1234

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 237. 1911 .

Law books for judicial officers

BOOKS FOR JUDICIAL OFFICERS: For the purchase of law books and

books of reference for United States judges, district attorneys, and

Proviso.

other judicial officers, to be expended under the direction of the At-

Transmittal to suc- torney General: Provided, That such books shall in all cases be

cessors.

transmitted to their. successors in office ; all books purchased here-

under to be plainly marked " The property of the United States,"

fifteen thousand dollars..

Customs Appeals

Court.

UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS APPEALS: Presiding judge and

Ante, p. 105.

four associate judges, at seven thousand dollars each ; marshal,

three thousand dollars ; clerk, three thousand five hundred dollars ;

assistant clerk, two thousand dollars; five stenographic clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; stenographic reporter, two

thousand five hundred dollars ; and messenger, eight hundred and

forty dollars ; in all, fifty-four thousand eight hundred and forty

dollars.

Miscellaneous ex-

penses.

For rent of necessary quarters in Washington, District of Columbia,

and elsewhere, seven thousand dollars; furniture, one thousand

dollars; for necessary traveling expenses of the court, its officials,

and employees, five thousand dollars; for books, periodicals, and stationery ; for . of bailiffs and all other necessary employees not

otherwise specifically provided for; and for such other miscellaneous .

expenses as may be approved by the presiding judge, ten thousand

dollars; in all, twenty-three thousand dollars, all to be approved by

Detailed' statement the presiding judge.

required.

A detailed statement of the expenditure of the appropriations for

the United States Court of Customs Appeals shall be submitted to

Congress at the beginning of each regular session thereof.

Commerce Court. Salaries and ex-

UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT: Expense allowance for judges

penses.

at rate of one thousand five hundred dollars per annum each, seven

Ante, p. 539.

thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk, four thousand dollars ; deputy

clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; marshal, three thousand

dollars ; deputy marshal, two thousand five hundred dollars ; for rent

of

necessary

quarters

in

Washington,

District ·

of Columbia,

and

elsewhere, and furnishing same for the United States Commerce

Court; for necessary traveling expenses of the court, its officials and

employees; for books, periodicals, stationery, printing, and binding; for pay of bailiffs and all other necessary employees at the seat of

government and elsewhere, not. otherwise specifically provided for, and for such other miscellaneous expenses as may be approved by

the presiding judge, seventy-five thousand dollars; in all, ninety-four

thousand five hundred dollars.

Detailed statement

required .

A detailed statement of the expenditure of the appropriations for

the United States Commerce Court shall be submitted to Congress

at the beginning of each regular. session thereof.

Court of Claims.

COURT OF CLAIMS: Chief justice, six thousand five hundred dol-

lars ; four judges, at six thousand dollars each; chief clerk, three

thousand five hundred dollars; assistant clerk, two thousand five

hundred dollars ; bailiff, one thousand five hundred dollars ; clerk,

one thousand six hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand four

hundred dollars each ; stenographer, one thousand two hundred

dollars ; three clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ;

chief messenger, one thousand dollars; three firemen; three watch-

Auditors, etc.

men ; elevator conductor; seven hundred and twenty dollars; two assistant messengers ; two laborers ; two charwomen; in all,, fifty-six thousand four hundred and eighty dollars.
For auditors and additional stenographers, when deemed necessary; inthe Court of Claims, and for a stenographer, at one thousand six hundred dollars, for the chief justice, to be disbursed under the direction of the court, six thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 237, 238. 1911.

1235

For stationery, court library, repairs, fuel, electric light, electric Contingentexpenses.
elevator, and. other miscellaneous expenses, three thousand nine hundred dollars.

For reporting the decisions of the court and superintending the printing ofthe forty-sixth volume of the reports of the Court of Claims,
one thousand dollars, to be paid on the order of the court, notwithstanding section seventeen hundred and sixty-five of the Revised Statutes or section three of the Act of June twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four.

Reporting decisions. RV.oSl..,1s8e,cp. 1.716059,.p. 314.

For pay of a custodian of the building occupied by the Court of Custodian.

Claims, five hundred dollars, to be paid on the order of the court,

notwithstanding section seventeen hundred and sixty-five of the VR.oSl.. ,1s8e,cp. 1. 716059,.p. 314. Revised Statutes or section three of the Act of June twentieth,

eighteen hundred and seventy-four.

Pay of switchboard

SEO. 2. The pay of telephone-switchboard operators, assistant mes- operators, assistant

sengers, firemen, watchmen, laborers, and charwomen provided for emtecs.s, ernagterds. , laborers,

in this Act, except those employed in mints and assay offices, unless

otherwise specially stated, shall be as follows : For telephone-switch-

board operators, assistant messengers, firemen, and watchmen, '.at

the rate of seven hundred and twenty dollars per annum each; for

laborers, at the rate of six hundred and sixty dollars per annum each;

assistant telephone-switchboard operators at the rate of six hundred dollars each, and for charwomen, at the rate of two hundred and

forty dollars per annum each .

SEC. 3. That the appropriations herein made for the officers, clerks, neNntolpy adyisfaobrlepderpmear-and persons employed in the public service shall not be available for sons.

the compensation of any persons incapacitated otherwise than tem-

porarily for performing such service, and the heads of departments

shall cause this provision to be enforced. Inconsistent laws
SEO. 4. That all laws or parts of laws inconsistent with this Act are repealed.
repealed.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

CHAP. 238.--An Act Makingappropriations for the Department ofAgriculture for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 31596.]
[Public, No. 178.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Agricultural DepartStates of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, ment appropriations.

and they are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, in full compensation

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, for the purposes and objects hereinafter expressed, namely:

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
SALARIES, OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE : Secretary siPstaaynto,fcSleecrrkes,taertcy., Asof Agriculture, twelve thousand dollars ; Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, five thousand dollars ; solicitor, five thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars, and five hundred dollars additional as custodian of buildings; private secretary to the Secretary of Agriculture, two thousand five hundred dollars; ste· nographer and executive clerk to the Secretary of Agriculture, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; private secretary to the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, one thousand six hundred dollars ; stenographer to the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one appointment clerk, two thousand dollars ; one chief of supply division, two thousand dollars ; one inspector, two thousand five hundred dollars ; one law clerk, two thousand five Law clerks. hundred dollars ; ten law clerks, at two thousand dollars each ; seven

1236

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

law clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; three law Proviso. Detailsoflawclerks. clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each : Provided, That
hereafter the law clerks may be detailed by the Secretary of Agri-
culture for service in or out of Washington; one telegraph and tele-
phone operator, one .thousand six hundred dollars ; two clerks, class

four; six clerks, class three; ten clerks, class two; eighteen clerks,

class one; eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; five clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; ten clerks, messengers, or laborers, at

Engineers, etc.

eight hundred and forty dollars each; sixteen clerks; assistant messengers, or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; one

chief engineer, who shall be captain of the watch, one thousand eight

hundred dollars ; one assistant chief engineer, one thousand four .

hundred dollars; one assistant engineer, one thousand two hundred

dollars ; two assistant engineers, at one thousand dollars each ; seven firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; eight elevator

conductors, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; one construction inspector, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one cabinetmaker, one thousand one hundred dollars ; two cabinetmakers, at

one thousand and eighty dollars each; one carpenter, one thousand one hundred dollars ; one carpenter, one thousand dollars ; two car-

penters, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each ; five carpenters, at nine hundred dollars each; two carpenters, at eight hundred and

forty dollars each; one electrician, one thousand dollars; one electrical wireman, nine hundred dollars ; two electrician's helpers, at six hundred dollars each; two painters, at nine hundred dollars each ;

one painter, eight hundred and forty dollars ; one painter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; four plumbers or steam fitters, at nine

hundred dollars each; two plumber's helpers, at six hundred dollars

ersW,aetcc.hmen, lab.or- each ; one blacksmith, eight hundred and forty dollars ; one lieutenant of the watch, one thousand dollars ; thirty-four watchmen,

at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two mechanics, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; two mechanics, at one thousand

one hundred dollars each; one janitor, nine hundred dollars ; eighteen assistant messengers or laborers, at six hundred dollars each; twentyone laborers, messenger boys, or charwomen, at four hundred and

eighty dollars each; one charwoman, five hundred and forty dollars ;

eight charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; for extra

labor and emergency employments, sixteen thousand two hundred dollars.

Total for Office of the Secretary, two hundred and seventy-six thousand four hundred and fifty dollars.

Weather Bureau.

WEATHER BUREAU.

Salaries.

SALARIES, WEATHER BUREAU : One chief of bureau, six thousand dollars ; one assistant chief of bureau, three thousand dollars ; one chief clerk and executive assistant, three thousand dollars; three chiefs of division, at two thousand dollars each; one librarian, two thousand dollars ; eight clerks, class four; nine clerks, class three; nineteen clerks, class two; twenty-nine clerks, class one ; nineteen clerks, at one thousand dollars each; nine clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; four copyists or typewriters at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; one copyist or typewriter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one telegraph operator, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one assistant foreman of division, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one assistant foreman of division, one thousand four hundred dollars; one lithographer, one thousand three hundred dollars ; three lithographers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; four compositors, at one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each ; fourteen printers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; eleven printers, at one

· SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1237

thousand dollars each; four folders and feeders, at seven hundred and

twenty dollars each; one chief mechanic, one thousand four hundred dollars ; five skilled mechanics, at one thousand two hundred dollars

each; seven skilled mechanics, at one thousand dollars each; one skilled mechanic, eight hundred and forty dollars; six skilled artisans, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one engineer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one fireman and steam fitter, eight hundred and forty dollars; six firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; one captain of the watch, one thousand dollars; one electrician, one thousand dollars ; one gardener, eight hundred and forty dollars;

two repairmen, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; eight repairmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; four watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; seventeen messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; six messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; twenty-seven messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at six hundred dollars each; eighty-seven messengers, messenger boys,

or laborers , at four hundred and eighty dollars each; five messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at four hundred and fifty dollars each; twenty-seven messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars

each; one charwoman, three hundred and sixty dollars; three charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each; in all, three hundred

and thirteen thousand one hundred and seventy dollars. Contingentexpenses.
CONTINGENT EXPENSES, WEATHER BUREAU: For fuel, lights, re-
pairs, and other expenses for the care and preservation of the public

buildings and grounds of the Weather Bureau in the city of Washington; for stationery and blank books, furniture and repairs to same, and freight and express charges ; for subsistence, care, and purchase of horses and vehicles, and repairs of harness, for official purposes

only; for advertising, dry goods, twine, mats, oils, paints, glass, lumber, hardware, ice, washing towels, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for in the city of Washington, twenty-five thousand dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, WEATHER BUREAU: For carrying into effect in the District of Columbia and elsewhere in the United States, in the West Indies or on adjacent coasts, in the Hawaiian Islands, and in Bermuda, the provisions of an Act approved October first, eighteen hundred and ninety, so far as they relate to the weather service transferred thereby to the Department of Agriculture, and for every

General expenses. Vol. 26, p. 653.

expenditure requisite for and incident to the establishment, equip-

ment, and maintenance ofmeteorological observation stations, includ-

ing

cooperation

with

other

bureaus

of the

Government

and

societies

otChoeorpbeurraetaiuosn,

with etc.

and institutions of learning for the dissemination of meteorological

information, as follows:

For the employment of professors of meteorology, inspectors, dis- Station officers, etc. trict forecasters, local forecasters, section directors, research observ-

ers, observers, assistant observers, operators, skilled mechanics,

repairmen, station agents, messengers, messenger boys, laborers, and other necessary employees, five hundred and forty-six thousand five

hundred and eighty dollars;

For fuel, gas, electricity, freight and express charges, urniture, Supplies. stationery, and all other necessary supplies and miscellaneous expenses, one hundred and four thousand dollars ;

For instruments, shelters, apparatus, storm-warning towers, and Apparatus, etc. repairs thereto, thirty-five thousand dollars;
For rebuilding and equipping the Weather Bureau building at Key KReebyuWiledsitn,gF,la.etc., West, Florida, plans and specifications to be prepared by the Secretary station. of Agriculture, and the work done under his supervision, not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars ;

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-80

1238

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

Buildings, expenses, etc.

For rent of offices and repairs to buildings now completed and

located outside of the District of Columbia and care and preservation

of grounds, including construction of sidewalks on public streets

abutting Weather Bureau grounds, ninety-seven thousand five hundred dollars ; Traveling expenses.
For official traveling expenses, twenty-two thousand dollars ; Telegraphing, etc.
For telephone rentals and for telegraphing, telephoning, and
cabling reports and messages, rates to be fixed by the Secretary of

Agriculture by agreements with the companies performing the service,

Maintenance oftele- three hundred thousand dollars ;

graph, etc., lines.

For the maintenance and repair of Weather Bureau telegraph,

telephone, and cable lines, four thousand dollars ;

Investigations, ob-

servations, etc.

For investigations in climatology and evaporation, including the

erection of temporary buildings for living quarters for observers, for

river, rain, snow, ice, crop, evaporation, aerial, storm, hurricane, and

other observations, warnings, and reports, and for pay of special

Printing office.

observers and display men, one hundred and twenty thousand dollars ;
For the maintenance of a printing office in the city of Washington,

including the purchase of necessary supplies and materials for printing

weather maps, bulletins, circulars, forms, and other publications, and for pay of additional assistant foremen, proof readers, compositors,

pressmen, lithographers, and folders and feeders, when necessary,

eighteen thousand dollars ;

In all, for general expenses, one million two hundred and sixty-two thousand and eighty dollars."

Total for Weather ,Bureau, one million six hundred thousand two

hundred and fifty dollars.

Animal Industry Bureau.

BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY.

Salaries.

SALARIES, BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY: One chief of bureau, five thousand dollars ; one chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; one editor and compiler, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; six clerks, class four ; one clerk, one thousand six hundred and eighty dollars ; twelve clerks, class three ; one clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars ; twenty-two clerks, class two ; two clerks, at one thousand three hundred and eighty dollars each ; two clerks, at one thousand three hundred and twenty dollars each ; one clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; one clerk, one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars ; thirty-six clerks, class one ; one clerk, one thousand one hundred dollars ; one clerk, one thousand and eighty dollars ; forty-three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; two clerks, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each; forty-three clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; nineteen clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; seven clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one clerk, seven hundred dollars; one architect, two thousand dollars ; one architect, nine hundred dollars ; one illustrator, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one assistant at experiment station, one thousand four hundred dollars ; four inspector's assistants, at one thousand dollars each ; twelve inspector's assistants, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; one laboratory assistant, nine hundred dollars ; one laboratory helper, one thousand and twenty dollars ; two laboratory helpers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; one laboratory helper, seven hundred and twenty dollars; one instrument maker, one thousand two hundred dollars; one carpenter, one thousandone . hundred dollars ; two carpenters, at one thousand dollars each ; one painter, six hundred dollars ; one messenger and custodian, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one messenger and custodian, one thousand dollars ; nine messengers or laborers, at eight hundred and forty dol-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

1239

lars each; ten messengers or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; twenty-three messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; six messengers or messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; one skilled laborer, one thousand dollars; thirty-three skilled laborers, at nine hundred dollars each ; two skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; seven skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one laborer, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ; nine laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; three laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; one watchman, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one charwoman ,' six hundred dollars ; one charwoman, five hundred and forty dollars; eleven charwomen, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; four charwomen, at threehundred and sixty dollars each ; one charwoman,
three hundred dollars; two charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; in all, three hundred and forty-seven thousand four hundred and fifty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY: For carrying

General expenses.

out the provisions of the Act approved May twenty-ninth, eighteen Vol. 23, p.81.

hundred and eighty-four, establishing a Bureau of Animal Industry, Vol. 26, p.833. and the provisions of the Act approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, providing for the safe transport and humane

treatment of export cattle from the United States to foreign coun-

tries, and for other purposes ; the Act approved August thirtieth, Vol. 26, p. 114.

eighteen hundred and ninety, providing for the importation of animals into the United States, and for other purposes, and the pro-

visions of the Act of Mayninth, ninteen hundred and two, extending Vol.82, p. 193.

the inspection of meats to process butter, and providing for the

inspection of factories, marking of packages, and so forth, and the provisions of the Act approved February second, nineteen hundred Vol. 32, p. 791.

and three, to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to more effectually suppress and prevent the spread of contagious and infectious diseases of live stock, and for other purposes, and also the provisions of the Act approved March third, nineteen hundred and five, to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and maintain quarantine districts, to permit and regulate the movement of cattle and other live stock therefrom, and for other purposes; and for carrying out the provisions of the Act of June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and

Vol.33, p. 1264. Vol. 34, p.607.

six, entitled "An Act to prevent cruelty to animals while in transit by railroad or other means of transportation," and to enable the Collecting informaSecretary of Agriculture to collect and disseminate information con- tion, etc.
cerning live stock, dairy, and other animal products ; to prepare and
disseminate reports on animal industry; to employ and pay from the appropriation herein made as many persons in the city of Washington or elsewhere as he may deem necessary; to purchase in the open Tuberculin serums, market samples of all tuberculin serums, antitoxins, or analogous etc.

products, of foreign or domestic manufacture, which are sold in the United States, for the detection, prevention, treatment, or cure of diseases of domestic animals, to test the same and to disseminate the

results of said tests in such manner as he may deem best; to purchase disPeuarscehdaasne,imaeltsc.. of and destroy diseased or exposed animals or quarantine the same whenever in his judgment essential to prevent the spread of pleuro-
pneumonia, tuberculosis, or other diseases of animals from one State to another, as follows:
For inspection and quarantine work, including all necessary quIanrasnpteicnetiwoornk. and

expenses for the eradication of scabies in sheep and cattle, the inspection of southern cattle, the supervision of the transportation of live stock and the inspection of vessels, the execution of the twenty-eighthour law, the inspection and quarantine of imported animals, including the establishment and maintenance of quarantine stations and

1240

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

the alteration of buildings thereon, the inspection work relative to

the existence of contagious diseases and the tuberculin and mallein

testing of animals, five hundred and ninety-two thousand seven

hundred dollars ;

Admission of tickInfested cattle below

The Act of August thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety, is hereby

quarantine line in amended so as to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture, within his

Vol. 26, p. 416.

discretion, and under such joint regulations as may be prescribed by

the . Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Treasury, to permit the admission of tick-infested cattle from Mexico into that

Quarantinestations. part of Texas below the southern cattle quarantine line ; Purchase of land, For the purchase of suitable land for animal quarantine stations eBtocs.t. onB.altimore and for the ports of Baltimore, Maryland, and Boston, Massachusetts,
and for the erection thereon of necessary buildings, fences, wharves,

piers, and other appurtenances, and for the repair and improvement

of existing structures, sixty-five thousand dollars, which sum shall

be immediately available;

Southern cattle

ticks.

For all necessary expenses for the eradication of southern cattle

Dairy industry.

ticks, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; For all necessary expenses for investigations and experiments in

dairy industry, cooperative investigations of the dairy industry in

the various States, inspection of renovated butter, factories, and

markets, one hundred- and fifty thousand dollars;
Animal husbandry. For all necessary expenses for investigations and experiments in

Animal diseases.

animal husbandry, forty-seven thousand four hundred and eighty dollars ;
For all necessary expenses for scientific investigations in diseases

of animals, including the maintenance and improvement of the bureau

experiment station at Bethesda, Maryland, and the necessary altera-

tions of buildings thereon, and the necessary expenses for investiga-

tions of tuberculin, serums, antitoxins, and analogous products,

Experiment farm. seventy-eight thousand six hundred and eighty dollars ;

Equipment, etc.

For all necessary expenses for continuing the equipment of the

experiment farm at Beltsville, Maryland, including the necessary

alterations of buildings thereon, the construction and repair of fences,

roadways, drains, and other incidental work, and for the maintenance

of the farm , including salaries of assistants and labor, feed for animals,

light, power, fuel, and other incidental expenses, ten thousand

Buildings, farm and dollars ;

station.

For construction of buildings at bureau experiment station at

Bethesda, Maryland, and bureau experiment farm at Beltsville,

Administrativework. Maryland, sixteen thousand five hundred dollars; For general administrative work, including traveling expenses and
salaries of employees engaged in such work, rent in the city of Wash-

ington, office fixtures and supplies, express, freight, telegraph, telephone, and other necessary expenses, forty-six thousand nine hundred and forty dollars ;

In all, for general expenses, one million two hundred and fifty-

seven thousand three hundred dollars.

Animal feeding and

breeding.

COOPERATIVE EXPERIMENTS IN ANIMAL FEEDING AND BREEDING :

For experiments in animal feeding and breeding, including cooperation with the State agricultural experiment stations, including the repairs and additions to and erection of buildings absolutely necessary to carry on the experiments, including rent, and the employment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all other necessary expenses, fifty thousand dollars.

Total for Bureau of Animal Industry, one million six hundred and fifty-four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1241

BUREAU OF PLANT INDUSTRY.

Plant Industry Bu reau.

Salaries. SALARIES, BUREAU OF PLANT INDUSTRY: One plant physiologist

and pathologist, who shall be chief of bureau, five thousand dollars ;

one. chief clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; one executive assistant in seed distribution, two thousand two hundred

and fifty dollars; one editor, two thousand dollars; one superintendent of gardens and grounds, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one

officer in charge of records, two thousand dollars; one superintendent

of seed weighing and mailing, two thousand dollars ; one executive

clerk, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; two executive

clerks, at one thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars each; one executive assistant in grain investigations, one thousand eight hun-

dred dollars ; one executive assistant in farm management, one thou-

sand eight hundred dollars ; one executive assistant in pomology, one

thousand eight hundred dollars; one assistant superintendent of seed

warehouse, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one seed inspector, one thousand dollars; four clerks, class four; eleven clerks, class three;

one clerk, one thousand five hundred dollars; fifteen clerks, class two;

thirty-five clerks, class one; one clerk, one thousand and eighty dol-

lars; three clerks, at one thousand and twenty dollars each; twentytwo clerks, at one thousand dollars each; thirty clerks, at nine hun-

dred dollars each ; eighteen clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars

each; one clerk, eight hundred dollars; thirty-eight clerks, messengers, or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; sixteen

clerks, messengers, or laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each;

twenty-six clerks, messengers, or laborers, at six hundred dollars each;

one artist, one thousand six hundred and twenty dollars ; one photog-

rapher, one thousand one hundred and forty dollars; one photographer, one thousand and eighty dollars; one laboratory aid, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars; one laboratory aid, one

thousand three hundred and eighty dollars; three laboratory aids, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; five laboratory aids, at eight

hundred and forty dollars each; four laboratory aids, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; three laboratory aids, at six hundred dollars

each; one gardener, one thousand four hundred and forty dollars ;

two gardeners, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; one gar-

dener, one thousand one hundred dollars ; two gardeners or assistants, at one thousand dollars each ; seven gardeners, at nine hundred dol-

lars each; four gardeners, at eight hundred and forty dollars each;

four gardeners, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each; eight gar-

deners, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; five gardeners, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; one gardener, six hundred dollars ;

one skilled laborer, nine hundred dollars ; four skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one mechanician, one thousand

three hundred and eighty dollars ; one mechanician, one thousand two

hundred and sixty dollars; one mechanical assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars; one mechanician, nine hundred dollars; one

carpenter, nine hundred dollars ; one painter, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one teamster, six hundred dollars; fifteen laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each; twenty-one laborers, messengers,

or messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; five labor-

ers or charwomen, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; two labor-

ers or charwomen, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; two . laborers, at four hundred and twenty dollars each ; seven charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each; seven messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; four messenger boys, at three hun-

dred dollars each; in all, three hundred and thirty thousand four hundred and seventy dollars.

1242

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 238. 1911 .

General expenses. Investigations, etc.

GENERAL EXPENSES , BUREAU OF PLANT INDUSTRY: For all neces-
sary expenses in the investigation of fruits, fruit trees, grain, cotton, tobacco, vegetables, grasses, forage, drug, medicinal, poisonous, fiber, and other plants and plant industries, in cooperation with other branches of the department, the State experiment stations, and prac-

tical farmers ; for rent and repairs in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and for the employment of all investigators, local and special agents, agricultural explorers, experts, clerks, illustrators, assistants, and all labor and other necessary expenses in the city of

Plant diseases. Fruit diseases. Tree, etc., diseases.

Washington and elsewhere required for the investigations, experiments, and demonstrations herein authorized, as follows:
For investigations of plant diseases and pathological collections, twenty-two thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars ;
For the control of diseases of orchard and other fruits, forty-two thousand and seventy-five dollars ;
For the control of diseases of forest and ornamental trees and

shrubs, twenty-four thousand six hundred and seventy dollars ;

Cotton and truck crops.

For the control of diseases of cotton, truck, and forage crops, and

Crop plants.

related plants, twenty-four thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars; For investigating the physiology of crop plants and for testing and

breeding varieties thereof, thirty- three thousand and fifteen dollars;

Bacteriology, nutrition, etc.

For soil bacteriology, plant nutrition, and water purification inves-

tigations, twenty-six thousand one hundred and forty-five dollars ;

Acclimatization,etc. For acclimatization and adaptation investigations of cotton, corn,

Drug plants, etc.

and other crops introduced from tropical regions, and for the improvement of cotton by cultural methods, breeding, and selection, thirtyfour thousand six hundred and seventy dollars ;
For drug plant, poisonous plant, tea culture, and general physio-

logical and fermentation investigations, forty-six thousand nine hun-

Fiber plants, etc. Cotton grading, etc.

dred and thirty dollars; For crop technological and fiber plant investigations, ten thousand
six hundred and ten dollars ;
For investigating the ginning, handling, grading, baling and wrapping of cotton, and the establishment of standards for the different

grades thereof, and for carrying into effect the provisions of law

relating thereto, thirty-two thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ;
Grain grading, etc. For investigating the handling, grading, and transportation of

grain, and the fixing of definite grades thereof, fifty-seven thousand

and eighty dollars ; tioPnhsy.sical investiga- For physical investigations in connection with the various lines of

New seeds, etc.

work herein authorized, sixteen thousand three hundred and seventyfive dollars ;
To collect, purchase, propagate, test, and experiment with seeds of

interest to agriculture, including rare new seeds, bulbs, trees , shrubs,

vines, cuttings, and plants, thirteen thousand one hundred and ten

dollars ;

Commercial seeds,

grasses, etc.

For studying and testing commercial seeds, including the testing of

samples of seeds of grasses, clover, or alfalfa secured in the open

market, and where such samples are found to be adulterated or mis-

branded the results of the tests shall be published, together with the

names of the persons by whomthe seeds were offered for sale, twenty-
six thousand six hundred and fifty dollars; Grain production. For the investigation and improvement of grains and methods of

grain production, seventy-seven thousand nine hundred and twenty-

five dollars;

Tobacco production, etc.

For the investigation and improvement of tobacco and the methods

of tobacco production and handling, twenty-six thousand six hundred

and thirty dollars ; tiFono.rage crop produc- For the investigation and improvement of forage crops and methods

of forage crop production, twenty thousand dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1243

For testing and breeding fibrous plants, which may be used for plPanatps.er-making paper making, eight thousand dollars;
For the breeding and physiological study of alkali-resistant and Arid-land crops.
drought-resistant crops, eighteen thousand, one hundred and forty dollars ;

For the investigation and improvement of sugar-producing plants, plSauutgs.ar- producing including their utilization and culture, thirty-two thousand three
hundred and fifty-five dollars ;

For taxonomic investigations and the study of methods for the Grazing lands.

improvement of grazing lands, twenty-one thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars ;

To investigate and encourage the adoption of improved methods of farm management and farm practice, one hundred and forty-two thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars: Provided, That of the amount hereby appropriated the sum of four thousand dollars shall be used in agricultural reconnoissance work in Alaska;

Farm management.
Proviso. Alaska allotment.

For the study and demonstration of the best methods of meeting the ravages of the cotton boll weevil, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars ;
For the investigation and improvement of methods of crop pro-

Cotton boll weevil. Dry-land farming.

duction under semiarid or dry-land conditions, seventy thousand dollars ;
For investigations in connection with the utilization of lands Reclaimed lands.

reclaimed under the reclamation Act, and other areas in the arid and semiarid regions, seventy-three thousand and sixty dollars ;
For the investigation and improvement of fruits, and the methods piFnrgu,iettgc.rowing, shipof fruit growing, harvesting, packing, storing, handling, and shipping, and for experimental shipments of fruits within the United States and to foreign countries, eighty-seven thousand seven hundred and thirty-five dollars ;

To cultivate and care for experimental gardens and grounds, deEnxsp,eertic.mental garmanage and maintain conservatories, greenhouses, and plant and

fruit propagating houses, thirteen thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars ;
For continuing the necessary improvements to establish and main- peArrilmienngttofna,rmV.a., ex- · tain a general experiment farm and agricultural station on the Vol. 31, p. 135.
Arlington estate, in the State of Virginia, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of Congress approved April eighteenth, nineteen
hundred, and for other general horticultural investigations, thirtyeight thousand dollars;

For the maintenance of a testing garden on the Fort Brown Military FToesrttiBngrogawrnd, eTne. x. Reservation at Brownsville, Texas, eleven thousand two hundred and

sixty dollars;

For general administrative expenses connected with the above- peAndsmeisn. istrative exmentioned lines of investigation, including the office of the chief of
bureau, the assistant chief of bureau, the chief clerk, the editor,

records, supplies, and. property, and for miscellaneous expenses in-

cident thereto, thirty-eight thousand two hundred.. and fifty-one dollars ;

In all, for general expenses, one million four hundred and forty-one thousand five hundred and thirty-six dollars.

PURCHASE AND DISTRIBUTION OF VALUABLE SEEDS : For purchase, SPeuerdcshase, distribu. propagation, testing, and distribution of valuable seeds, bulbs, trees, tion, etc. shrubs, vines, cuttings, and plants; all necessary office fixtures and

supplies, fuel, transportation, paper, twine, gum, postal cards, gas, electric current, official traveling expenses, and all necessary material

and repairs for putting up and distributing the same; for rent and repairs and the employment of local and special agents, clerks,

assistants, and other labor required, in the city of Washington and elsewhere, two hundred and eighty-nine thousand six hundred

1244

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

meCnotng. ressional allot- and eighty dollars, of which amount not less than two hundred and thirty-seven thousand one hundred and sixty dollars shall be allotted

for congressional distribution. And the Secretary of Agriculture is
hereby directed to expend the said sum, as nearly as practicable,
in the purchase, testing, and distribution of such valuable seeds,
bulbs, shrubs, vines, cuttings, and plants, the best he can obtain at Seeds, etc., to be adapted to locality. public or private sale, and such as shall be suitable for the respective
localities to which the same are to be apportioned, and in which same

are to be distributed as hereinafter stated, and such seeds so purchased shall include a variety of vegetable and flower seeds suitable for planting and culture in the various sections of the United States.

An equal proportion of five-sixths of all seeds, bulbs, shrubs, vines, cuttings, and plants, shall, upon their request, after due notification

by the Secretary of Agriculture that the allotment to their respective districts is ready for distribution, be supplied to Senators, Representa-
trCibountgiroens.sional dis- tives, and Delegates to Congress for distribution among their constituents, or mailed by the department upon the receipt of their addressed

Provisos.

franks, in packages of such weight as the Secretary of Agriculture

Indication on wrap- and the Postmaster General may jointly determine: Provided, howpers, etc.
"ever, That upon each envelope or wrapper containing packages of

seeds the contents thereof shall be plainly indicated, and the Secretary

shall not distribute to any Senator, Representative, or Delegate seeds entirely unfit for the climate and locality he represents, but shall distribute the same so that each Member may have seeds of equal value, as near as may be, and the best adapted to the locality he represents: soEutahrelrnysdecetliiovne.ry to Provided also, That the seeds allotted to Senators and Representatives for distribution in the districts embraced within the twenty-fifth and thirty-fourth parallels of latitude shall be ready for delivery not later calDliesdtr-fiobrutailolnotomfenutns-. than the tenth day of January: Provided also, That any portion of the allotments to Senators, Representatives, and Delegates in Congress remaining uncalled for on the first day of April shall be distributed

by the Secretary of Agriculture, giving preference to those persons whose names and addresses have been furnished by Senators and

Representatives in Congress, and who have not before during the same etcR.eportof purchases, season been supplied by the department: And provided also, That the
Secretary shall report, as provided in this Act, the place, quantity,

and price of seeds purchased, and the date of purchase; but nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Secretary of AgripriDaitvieornsfioornboifddaepnp.ro- culture from sending seeds to those who apply for the same. And the amount herein appropriated shall not be diverted or used for any other purpose but for the purchase, testing, propagation, and disPurchase of rare tribution of valuable seeds, bulbs, mulberry and other rare and valu-

mseendtsa,lettce.s,tsf.or experl- able trees, shrubs, vines, cuttings, and plants: Providedfurther, That fifty-two thousand five hundred and twenty dollars of which sum,

or so much thereof as the Secretary of Agriculture shall direct, may be used to collect, purchase, test, propagate, and distribute rare and valuable seeds, bulbs, trees, shrubs, vines, cuttings, and plants from foreign countries or from our possessions for experiments with reference to their introduction into and cultivation in this country, and

same shall not be distributed generally, but shall be used for experimental tests, to be carried on with the cooperation of the agricultural experiment stations.

Total for Bureau of Plant Industry, two million sixty-one thousand six hundred and eighty-six dollars.

Forest Service.

FOREST SERVICE.

Salaries.

SALARIES, FOREST SERVICE : One forester, who shall be chief of

Forester, supervi-

Bors, etc.

bureau, five thousand dollars ; one administrative assistant, two thou-

sand dollars; one forest supervisor, two thousand seven hundred

dollars; five forest supervisors, at two thousand four hundred dollars

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1245

each ; eighteen forest supervisors, at two thousand two hundred dol-

lars each; forty-five forest supervisors, at two thousand dollars

each; sixty-six forest supervisors, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; ten forest supervisors, at one thousand six hundred

dollars each; four deputy forest supervisors, at one thousand seven

hundred dollars each; twenty-one deputy forest supervisors, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; thirty deputy forest supervisors,
at one thousand five hundred dollars each; forty-one deputy forest supervisors, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; one forest

Rangers.

ranger, one thousand five hundred dollars ; seventeen forest rangers, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; seventy-five forest rangers,

at one thousand three hundred dollars each; one hundred and fifty

forest rangers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; nine forest rangers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; two assistant

forest rangers, at one thousand three hundred dollars each ; forty-

eight assistant forest rangers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; eight hundred and forty-seven assistant forest rangers, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; one property auditor, one thou- Chiefs of divisions sand eight hundred dollars ; seven chiefs of maintenance, at one thou- clerks, etc.

sand six hundred dollars each; one chief of distribution, one thousand

six hundred dollars; one clerk, two thousand one hundred dollars ; three clerks, at two thousand dollars each; eleven clerks, at one thou-

sand eight hundred dollars each; seventeen clerks, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; nine clerks, at one thousand five hundred

dollars each ; eight clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each;

one clerk, one thousand three hundred and eighty dollars; seven clerks, at one thousand three hundred and twenty dollars each; four clerks, at one thousand three hundred dollars each ; two clerks, at one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars each; seventy-seven clerks,

at one thousand two hundred dollars each; fifty-two clerks, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; seven clerks, at one thousand and

eighty dollars each; seventeen clerks, at one thousand and twenty

dollars each; thirty-four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; thirty clerks, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each; one hundred and ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; eighteen clerks, at eight hundred

and forty dollars each; four clerks, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each; four clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one clerk, seven hundred dollars; two superintendents of telephone

construction, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; one game warden, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one game warden, one

thousand two hundred dollars ; one compiler, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one reader or clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

one draftsman, two thousand dollars; three draftsmen, at one thou- · Draftsmen, etc. sand six hundred dollars each ; two draftsmen, at one thousand five

hundred dollars each; four draftsmen, at one thousand four hundred

dollars each; one draftsman, one thousand three hundred and eighty

dollars ; one draftsman, one thousand three hundred and twenty dollars; three draftsmen, at one thousand three hundred dollars each;

one draftsman, one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars ; six

draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; one draftsman, one thousand one hundred and forty dollars ; one draftsman, one thousand one hundred dollars ; one draftsman, one thousand and

eighty dollars; three draftsmen, at one thousand dollars each ; one draftsman, nine hundred and sixty dollars ; four draftsmen, at nine hundred dollars each; one artist, one thousand four hundred dollars ;

one artist, one thousand dollars ; four map colorists, at nine hundred

dollars each; one map colorist, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one

photographer, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one photographer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one photographer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one photographer, one thousand one hundred

1246

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 238. 1911 .

Machinists, etc.

dollars ; one lithographer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one lithographer's helper, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; one machinist, one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars ; one carpenter, one thousand two hundred dollars; two carpenters, at one thousand dollars each; one carpenter, nine hundred and sixty dollars ; one electrician, one thousand and twenty dollars ; one laboratory aid and

Messengers, ers, etc.

engineer, nine hundred dollars ; three laboratory assistants, at nine hundred dollars each ; one laboratory assistant, eight hundred dollars ; one laboratory helper, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one laboratory helper, six hundred dollars ; one packer one thousand dollars ; labor. one packer, seven hundred and eighty dollars ; four watchmen, at
eight hundred and forty dollars each; one messenger or laborer, nine hundred and sixty dollars ; three messengers or laborers, at nine hundred dollars each; two messengers or laborers, at eight hundred and

forty dollars each; two messengers or laborers, at eight hundred dollars each; three messengers or laborers, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each ; three messengers or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one messenger or laborer, seven hundred dollars ; six messengers or laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each; five

messengers or laborers, at six hundred dollars each; two messengers or laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each; three messengers or messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; three messengers or messenger boys, at four hundred and twenty dollars

each; sixteen messengers or messenger boys, at three hundred and

sixty dollars each; one apprentice boy, four hundred and eighty dollars ; one charwoman, five hundred and forty dollars ; one char-

woman, four hundred and eighty dollars; one charwoman, three hundred dollars ; eleven charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; in all, two million three hundred and eighteen thousand six General expenses. hundred and eighty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, FOREST SERVICE : To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to experiment and to make and continue investigations
and report on forestry, national forests, forest fires, and lumbering,
StRateesst.rictedtoUnited but no part of this appropriation shall be used for any experiment or test made outside the jurisdiction of the United States ; to advise the owners of woodlands as to the proper care of the same ; to investigate and test American timber and timber trees and their

uses, and methods for the preservative treatment of timber; to seek, through investigations and the planting of native and foreign

Provisos. Cost ofbuildings.

species, suitable trees for the treeless regions; to erect necessary buildings: Provided, That the cost of any building erected shall not exceed six hundred and fifty dollars ; to pay all expenses necessary

naPtriootneacltfioorne,stest. c., of to protect, administer, and improve the national forests ; to ascertain the natural conditions upon and utilize the national forests: and

Sales of timber. the Secretary of Agriculture may, in his discretion, permit timber

Exception.

and other forest products cut or removed from the national forests, except the Black Hills National Forest in South Dakota, to be

exported from the State, Territory, or the District of Alaska in which

said forests are respectively situated : Provided, That the exportaFoBrleastc.k Hills National tion of dead and insect-infested timber only from said Black Hills
National Forest shall be allowed until such time as the forester shall

certify that the ravages of the destructive insects in said forests are

practically checked , but in no case after July first, nineteen hundred

gaCmaere. of fish and and twelve ; to transport and care for fish and game supplied to

Agents, etc.

stock the national forests or the waters therein; to employ agents,

clerks, assistants, and other labor required in practical forestry and in the administration of national forests, in the city of Washington

and elsewhere ; to collate, digest, report, and illustrate the results of experiments and investigations made by the Forest Service; to purchase law books to an amount not exceeding five hundred dollars,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1247-

necessary supplies, apparatus, and office fixtures, and technical books Supplies.

and technical journals for officers of the Forest Service stationed outside of Washington; to pay freight, express, telephone, and telegraph charges; for electric light and power, fuel, gas, ice, washing towels, and official traveling and other necessary expenses, including traveling expenses for legal and fiscal officers while performing- Forest Service work; and for rent in the city of Washington and elsewhere, as follows:

For salaries and field and station expenses, including the mainte- NMatiinotneanlafnocree,sts.etc., nance of nurseries, collecting seed, and planting, necessary for the including nurseries. use, maintenance, and protection of the national forests named below:

Absaroka National Forest, Montana, eleven thousand five hundred Absaroka, Mont.

and twenty dollars ;

Alamo National Forest, New Mexico, eight thousand seven hundred Alamo, N. Mex.

and seventy dollars ; Angeles National Forest, California, nineteen thousand nine hun- Angeles, Cal.,

dred and eighty-three dollars; Apache National Forest, Arizona, eleven thousand six hundred and Apache, Ariz.

seventy-seven dollars ; Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, eleven thousand four hundred Arapaho, Colo.

and eighty-four dollars;

Arkansas National Forest, Arkansas, thirteen thousand seven hun- Arkansas, Ark.

dred and eighty-three dollars ;

Ashley National

Forest,

Utah

and

Wyoming,

ten

thousand

one

Ashley, Wyo.

Utah

and

hundred and eighty-four dollars;

Battlement National Forest, Colorado; seven thousand five hun- Battlement, Colo.

dred and eighty-four dollars ;

Beartooth National Forest, Montana, ten thousand three hundred Beartooth, Mont. and five dollars ;

Beaverhead National Forest, Montana and Idaho, twelve thousand BeaIvdearhhoe. ad, Mont. seven hundred dollars ;

Bighorn National Forest, Wyoming, eighteen thousand five hun- Bighorn, Wyo. dred and thirty-eight dollars;

Bitterroot National Forest, Montana, twenty-two thousand eight Bitterroot, Mont. hundred and forty-seven dollars ;

Blackfeet National Forest, Montana, eighteen thousand two hundred and sixty-two dollars ;
Black Hills National Forest, South Dakota, nine thousand four hundred and twenty dollars;
Boise National Forest, Idaho, nine thousand one hundred and seventy-three dollars;
Bonneville National Forest, Wyoming, three thousand three hundred and ninety-five dollars;
Bridger National Forest, Wyoming, four thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine dollars ;
Cabinet National Forest, Montana, eighteen thousand three hundred and forty-one dollars ;

Blackfeet, Mónt. Black Hills, S. Dak. Boise, Idaho. Bonneville, Wyo. Bridger, Wyo. Cabinet, Mont.

Cache National Forest, Utah and Idaho, five thousand nine hundred ,IdCaahcoh.e, Utah and and fifty-three dollars ;

California National Forest, California, twelve thousand and ninety- California, Cal. one dollars;
Caribou National Forest, Idaho and Wyoming, three thousand WyCaor.ibou, Idaho aud seven hundred and two dollars;
Carson National Forest, New Mexico, fifteen thousand nine hundred Carson, N. Mex. and twenty dollars ;
Cascade National Forest, Oregon, fourteen thousand and eighty- Cascade, Oreg. four dollars ;

Challis National Forest, Idaho, eight thousand six hundred and Challis, Idaho. seventy-nine dollars;

1248

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

Chelan, Wash.

Chelan National Forest, Washington, ten thousand . four hunderd

and seven dollars ; Chiricahu and N. Mex.a, Ariz. Chiricahua National Forest, Arizona and New Mexico , five thousand
four hundred and fifty-nine dollars ;
Chugach, Alaska. Chugach National Forest, Alaska, twenty-five thousand two hun-

dred and eighty dollars; Clearwater, Idaho. Clearwater National Forest, Idaho, fourteen thousand eight hun-

Cleveland, Cat.

dred and forty-three dollars; Cleveland National Forest, California, seventeen thousand nine

hundred and thirty-seven dollars ;

Cochetopa, Colo.

Cochetopa National Forest, Colorado, nine thousand five hundred

Coconino, Ariz.

and forty dollars; Coconino National Forest, Arizona, fourteen thousand nine hundred

and forty-two dollars ;

Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.

Coeur d'Alene National Forest, Idaho, sixteen thousand one hun-

dred and fifty-five dollars;

Colorado, Colo.

Colorado National Forest, Colorado, ten thousand five hundred and

twenty-eight dollars;

Columbia, Wash.

· Columbia National Forest, Washington, sixteen thousand four

Colville, Wash.

hundred and seventy-two dollars ; Colville National Forest, Washington, thirteen thousand five hun-

dred and twenty-five dollars ;

Coronado, Ariz,

Coronado National Forest, Arizona, fifteen thousand five hundred

and seventeen dollars ;

Crater, Oreg. and Cal.

Crater National Forest, Oregon and California, twenty thousand

three hundred and fifty-five dollars ;

Crook, Ariz.

Crook National Forest, Arizona, eight thousand seven hundred

Custer, Mont.

and fifty-six dollars ; Custer National Forest, Montana, six thousand three hundred and

Dakota, N. Dak. Datil, N. Mex. Deerlodge, Mont.

eighty-six dollars ; Dakota National Forest, North Dakota, nine hundred and thirty-
three dollars ; Datil National Forest, New Mexico, eighteen thousand three hun-
dred and four dollars;
Deerlodge National Forest, Montana, sixteen thousand five hun-

dred and forty dollars;

Deschutes, Oreg.

Deschutes National Forest, Oregon, eight thousand two hundred

and fifty-eight dollars ;

Dixie, Utah and Ariz.

Dixie National Forest, Utah and Arizona, four thousand two hun-

dred and thirty-seven dollars ;

Durango, Colo.

Durango National Forest, Colorado, eleven thousand one hundred

and eleven dollars ;

Eldorado, Cal, and Nev.

Eldorado National Forest, California and Nevada, ten thousand

two hundred and eight dollars;

Fillmore, Utah.

Fillmore National Forest, Utah, five thousand four hundred and

seventy-seven dollars ;

Fishlake, Utah.

Fishlake National Forest, Utah, three thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine dollars ;

Flathead, Mont.

Flathead National Forest, Montana, twenty-eight thousand one

Florida, Fla.

hundred and fifty-one dollars ; Florida National Forest, Florida, six thousand nine hundred and

Fremont, Oreg.

seventy dollars; Fremont National Forest, Oregon, twelve thousand five hundred

Gallatin, Mont,

and ninety-two dollars ; Gallatin National Forest, Montana, twelve thousand five hundred
and five dollars ;

Gi'r, N. Mex. Gunnison, Colo.

Gila National Forest, New Mexico, seventeen thousand six hundred and six dollars ;
Gunnison National Forest, Colorado, eight thousand eight hundred and thirteen dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1249

Harney National Forest, South Dakota, eight thousand two hun- Harney,S. Dak. dred and seventeen dollars;

Hayden National Forest, Wyoming and Colorado, seven thousand CoHlao.yden, Wyo. and six hundred and twenty-six dollars ;

Helena National Forest, Montana, ten thousand nine hundred and fifty-five dollars;
Holy Cross National Forest, Colorado, eight thousand four hundred and sixty-nine dollars ;

Helena, Mont. Holy Cross, Colo.

Humboldt National Forest, Nevada, fifteen thousand one hundred Humboldt, Nev. and eighty dollars ;

Idaho National Forest, Idaho, ten thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars ;
Inyo National Forest, California and Nevada, nine thousand five hundred and three dollars ;

Idaho, Idaho. Inyo, Cal. and Nev.

Jefferson National Forest, Montana, eleven thousand nine hundred Jefferson, Mont.

and thirty dollars ; Jemez National Forest, New Mexico, fifteen thousand four hundred Jemez,N. Mex.
and nine dollars ;

Kaibab National Forest, Arizona, six thousand nine hundred and Kalbab, Ariz. eighty-two dollars ;

Kaniksu National Forest, Idaho and Washington, twenty thousand WyKoan. iksu, Idahoand five hundred and sixty-eight dollars ;
Kansas National Forest, Kansas, two thousand two hundred and Kansas, Kans. sixty-three dollars ;

Kern National Forest, California, sixteen thousand and fifty-nine Kern, Cal. dollars ;

Klamath National Forest, California, nineteen thousand one hun- Klamath, Cal. dred and ninety-two dollars ;

Kootenai National Forest, Montana, twenty-five thousand nine Kootenal, Mont. hundred and seventy-seven dollars ;

La Sal National Forest, Utah and Colorado, four thousand seven CoLlao. Sal, Utah and hundred and nineteen dollars ;

Lassen National Forest, California, twelve thousand eight hundred Lassen, Cal.

and sixty-five dollars ; Leadville National Forest, Colorado, fourteen thousand six hundred
and eight dollars; Lemhi National Forest, Idaho, six thousand six hundred and nine
dollars ;

Leadville, Colo. Lemhi, Idaho.

Lewis and Clark National Forest, Montana, twelve thousand nine MoLnetwis and Clark, hundred and seventeen dollars ;

Lincoln National Forest, New Mexico, six thousand nine hundred Lincoln, N. Mex. and eighty-two dollars ;

Lolo National Forest, Montana, eighteen thousand eight hundred Lolo, Mont. and thirty-nine dollars ;

Luquillo National Forest, Porto Rico, two thousand four hundred Luquillo, P. R. and eight dollars ;

Madison National Forest, Montana, fourteen thousand one hundred Madison, Mont.

and twenty-one dollars ; Malheur National Forest, Oregon, twelve thousand seven hundred
and ninety dollars ; Manti National Forest, Utah, six thousand eight hundred and

Malheur, Oreg. Manti,Utah.

seven dollars ; Manzano National Forest, New Mexico, three thousand nine hun- Manzano,N. Mex.
dred and sixty-three dollars;

Marquette National Forest, Michigan, two thousand one hundred Marquette,Mich. and sixty-seven dollars ;

Medicine Bow National Forest, Wyoming, fourteen thousand three Medicine Bow,Wyo. hundred and seven dollars ;

Michigan National Forest, Michigan, two thousand eight hundred Michigan, Mich. and twenty-nine dollars ;

1250

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

Minam, Oreg.

Minam National Forest, Oregon, six thousand three hundred and

fifty-six dollars ; Minnesota, Minn. Minnesota National Forest, Minnesota, ten thousand seven hundred

and twenty dollars ;

Minidoka, Idaho and Utah.

Minidoka National Forest, Idaho and Utah, four thousand four

hundred and eighty-four dollars ;

Missoula, Mont.

Missoula National Forest, Montana, twenty thousand five hundred

Moapa, Nev. Modoc, Cal.

and sixty-one dollars ; Moapa National Forest, Nevada, one thousand one hundred and
one dollars ; Modoc National Forest, California, twelve thousand two hundred

and nineteen dollars;

Mono, Nev. and Cal.

Mono National Forest, Nevada and California, ten thousand nine

Monterey, Cal.

hundred and twenty-four dollars ; Monterey National Forest, California, two thousand five hundred

and thirty-four dollars ; Montezuma, Colo. Montezuma National Forest, Colorado, eight thousand nine hun-

Nebo, Utah.

dred and fifty-six dollars ; Nebo National Forest, Utah, one thousand five hundred and fifty-

eight dollars ;

Nebraska, Nebr. Proviso.

Nebraska National Forest, Nebraska, two thousand nine hundred

laNndewrestirdeeensts.to arid and nineteen dollars : Provided, That from the nurseries on said forest

the Secretary of Agriculture, under such rules and regulations as

Vol. 33, p. 547.

he may prescribe, may furnish young trees free, so far as they may be spared, to residents of the territory covered by " An Act increasing the area of homesteads in a portion of Nebraska," approved April

Nevada, Nev.

twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and four ; Nevada National Forest, Nevada, seven thousand one hundred and

thirty-nine dollars ;
Nezperce, Idaho. Nezperce National Forest, Idaho, twenty-three thousand and

Ochoco, Oreg.

thirty-six dollars ; Ochoco National Forest, Oregon, eleven thousand six hundred

and forty-one dollars ;

Okanogan, Wash.

Okanogan National Forest, Washington, sixteen thousand seven

Olympic, Wash. Oregon, Oreg . Ozark, Ark.

hundred and forty-five dollars ;
Olympic National Forest, Washington, fifteen thousand nine hundred and sixty-two dollars ;
Oregon National Forest, Oregon, nineteen thousand four hundred and sixty-two dollars ;
Ozark National Forest, Arkansas, eleven thousand four hundred

and ninety-six dollars ;

Palisade, Idaho and

Wyo.

Palisade National Forest, Idaho and Wyoming, nine thousand

Paulina, Oreg.

seven hundred and thirty-nine dollars; Paulina National Forest, Oregon, thirteen thousand eight hundred

and two dollars;

Payette, Idaho.

Payette National Forest, Idaho, fifteen thousand one hundred

Pecos, N. Mex.

and fifty-eight dollars; Pecos National Forest, New Mexico, eleven thousand seven hun-

dred and thirty-seven dollars ; Pend Oreille, Idaho. Pend Oreille National Forest, Idaho, fourteen thousand four hun-

Pike, Colo.

dred and forty-six dollars ; Pike National Forest, Colorado, seventeen thousand one hundred

Plumas, Cal.

and eighty-four dollars ; Plumas National Forest, California, seventeen thousand nine hun-

dred dollars;

Pocatello, Idaho and Utah.

Pocatello National Forest, Idaho and Utah, three thousand three

Powell, Utah.

hundred and twenty-seven dollars ; Powell National Forest, Utah, four thousand nine hundred and

eleven dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 238. 1911.

1251

Prescott National Forest, Arizona, six thousand two hundred and forty-eight dollars ;
Rainier National Forest, Washington, thirteen thousand six húndred and three dollars ;
Rio Grande National Forest, Colorado, ten thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ;
Routt National Forest, Colorado, eleven thousand two hundred and twenty-five dollars ;
Salmon National Forest, Idaho, seventeen thousand four hundred and forty-nine dollars;
San Isabel National Forest, Colorado, nine thousand five hundred and forty-six dollars ;
San Juan National Forest, Colorado, eleven thousand seven hundred and ninety-one dollars ;
Santa Barbara National Forest, California, fourteen thousand one hundred and fifty-seven dollars;

Prescott, Ariz Rainier, Wash. Rio Grande, Colo. Routt, Colo. Salmon, Idaho. San Isabel, Colo. San Juan, Colo. Santa Barbara, Cal.

Santiam National Forest, Oregon, eleven thousand and twentyeight dollars;
Sawtooth National Forest, Idaho, eight thousand four hundred
and eighty-seven dollars ; Selway National Forest, Idaho, twenty thousand nine hundred and
sixty-two dollars; Sequoia National Forest, California, eighteen thousand seven hun-
dred and nineteen dollars ;

Santiam, Oreg. Sawtooth, Idaho: Selway, Idaho. Sequoia, Cal,

Sevier National Forest, Utah, three thousand and forty-six dollars; Sevier, Utah. Shasta National Forest, California, seventeen thousand eight hun- Shasta,Cal. dred and sixteen dollars;

Shoshone National Forest, Wyoming; seven thousand seven hun- Shoshone, Wyo. dred and ten dollars ;

Sierra National Forest, California, nineteen thousand eight hun- Sierra, Cal. dred and twenty-three dollars;
Sioux National Forest, South Dakota and Montana, five thousand MoSniotu. x, S. Dak. and

six hundred and thirty-four dollars; Siskiyou National Forest, Oregon and California, fifteen thousand CaSli.skiyou, Oreg. and

and fifteen dollars ;.

Sitgreaves National Forest, Arizona, twelve thousand eight hun- Sitgreaves, Ariz.

dred and eighty-one dollars; Siuslaw National Forest, Oregon, ten thousand four hundred and Stuslaw, Oreg.

ninety-one dollars; Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington, twenty thousand and Snoqualmie, Wash.

seven dollars;

Sopris National Forest, Colorado, ten thousand and nineteen dollars ;
Saint Joe National Forest, Idaho, twenty-one thousand five hundred and thirty-six dollars ;

Sopris, Colo. SaintJoe, Idaho.

Stanislaus National Forest, California, sixteen thousand seven hun- Stanislaus, Cal. dred and eighteen dollars ;
Sundance National Forest, Wyoming, three thousand five hundred Sundance, Wyo. and ninety-nine dollars ;
Superior National Forest, Minnesota, ten thousand five hundred Superior, Minn. and thirty-three dollars ;
Tahoe National Forest, California and Nevada, eighteen thousand NeTva.hoe, Cal., and six hundred and forty-seven dollars;

Targhee National Forest, Idaho and Wyoming, eleven thousand WyTaor. ghee,Idaho and four hundred and twenty-four dollars;

Teton National Forest, Wyoming, nine thousand one hundred and twenty-five dollars ;
Toiyabe National Forest, Nevada, seven thousand two hundred and twenty-three dollars;
Tongass National Forest, Alaska, twenty-three thousand and forty-one dollars ;

Teton, Wyo. Tolyabe, Nev. Tongass, Alaska.

1252

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

Tonto, Ariz.

Tonto National Forest, Arizona, seven thousand four hundred

Trinity, Cal. Tusayan, Ariz.

and thirty-three dollars ; Trinity National Forest, California, twenty-three thousand, one
hundred and thirteen dollars;
Tusayan National Forest, Arizona, eleven thousand nine hundred

Uinta, Utah. Umatilla, Oreg.

and eighteen dollars ; Uinta National Forest, Utah, six thousand and ninety dollars; Umatilla National Forest, Oregon, eight thousand five hundred

Umpqua, Oreg.

and seventeen dollars ; Umpqua National Forest, Oregon, fourteen thousand four hundred

and eight dollars ;

Uncompahgre ,

Colo.

Uncompahgre National Forest, Colorado, ten thousand seven hun-

dred and fifty-six dollars;

Wallowa, Oreg.

Wallowa National Forest, Oregon, twelve thousand one hundred

Wasatch, Utah.

and eighty-eight dollars ; Wasatch National Forest, Utah , two thousand three hundred and

ninety-six dollars ;
Washakie, Wyo. Washakie National Forest, Wyoming, seven thousand five hundred

and ninety-five dollars ;
Washington, Wash. Washington National Forest, Washington, fourteen thousand nine

Weiser, Idaho.

hundred and forty-five dollars ; Weiser National Forest , Idaho, fourteen thousand and sixty-six

dollars ;

Wenaha, Wash, and

Oreg.

Wenaha National Forest, Washington and Oregon, nine thousand

eight hundred and five dollars; Wenatchee, Wash.
Wenatchee National Forest , Washington, eleven thousand four

White River, Colo. Whitman, Oreg.

hundred and seventy-eight dollars; White River National Forest, Colorado, eleven thousand seven
hundred and seventy-nine dollars ;
Whitman National Forest, Oregon, seventeen thousand five hun-

Wichita, Okla.

dred and twenty-one dollars; Wichita National Forest, Oklahoma, eleven thousand nine hun-

dred and seventy-eight dollars ;

Wyoming, Wyo.

Wyoming National Forest, Wyoming, nine thousand four hun-

dred and thirty-eight dollars ;

Zuni, N. Mex. and

Ariz.

Zuni National Forest, New Mexico and Arizona, five thousand two

Emergencies. Post, p. 1261.

hundred and eighty-seven dollars ; For fighting forest fires and for other unforeseen emergencies, one

hundred and fifty thousand dollars, of which sum seventy thousand

Supplies, etc.

dollars shall be immediately available; For the purchase and maintenance of all necessary field, office, and

laboratory supplies, instruments and equipment, one hundred and

ninety-eight thousand and eighty dollars ;

Investigations, for est products.

For investigations of methods for wood distillation and for the

preservative treatment of timber, for timber testing and the testing

of such woods as may require test to ascertain if they be suitable for

making paper, and for other investigations and experiments to pro-

mote economy in the use of forest products, one hundred and seventy-

seven thousand and forty dollars ;

Range conditions,

etc.

For experiments and investigations of range conditions within

national forests, and of methods for improving the range by reseeding,

Tree planting.

regulation of grazing, and other means, eighteen thousand four hundred and twenty dollars ;
For silvicultural and other experiments and investigations within

national forests necessary for tree planting, for the reproduction of

existing forests, and the regulation of cutting, one hundred and sixty-

Management offor- six thousand six hundred and forty dollars;

est lands, etc.

For silvicultural, dendrological, and other experiments and inves-

tigations independently or in cooperation with other branches of the

Federal Government, with States and with individuals , to determine

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1253

the best methods for the conservative management of forests and

forest lands, eighty-four thousand five hundred and twenty-eight dollars ;

For market and other miscellaneous forest investigations, and for suCltoslolfaitnivnegs,tiegtact.iornes-. collating, digesting, recording, illustrating,and distributing the results

of the experiments and investigations herein provided for, thirty-three

thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars ;

Provisos.

Provided, That no part of the money herein appropriated shall be elRiensgterixcpteinosneos.n tray-

used to pay the transportation or traveling expenses of any forest

officer or agent except he be traveling on business directly connected

with the Forest Service and in furtherance of the works, aims, and

objects specified and authorized in and by this appropriation : Articles for period-
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be paid or icals.
used for the purpose of paying for, in whole or in part, the preparation
or publication of any newspaper or magazine article, but this shall

not prevent the giving out to all persons without discrimination,

including newspaper and magazine writers and publishers, of any

facts or official information of value to the public: Providedfurther', itoRres.funds to depos That so much of an Act entitled " An Act making appropriations for Vol. 34, p. 1270.

the Department of Agriculture for the fiscalyear ending June thirtieth,

nineteen hundred and eight," approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven (Thirty-fourth Statutes at Large, pagès twelve hun-

dred and fifty-six and twelve hundred and seventy), which provides for refunds by the Secretary of Agriculture to depositors of moneys,

to secure the purchase price of timber or the use of lands or resources of the national forests such sums as may be found to be in excess of the amounts found actually due the United States, be, and is hereby,

amended hereafter to appropriate and to include so much as may Refund oferroneous be necessary to refund or pay over to the rightful claimants such collections, etc sums as may be found by the Secretary of Agriculture to have been erroneously collected for the use of any lands, or for timber or other

resources sold from lands located within, butnot a part of, the national forests, or for alleged illegal acts done upon such lands, which acts

are subsequently found to have been proper and legal; and the Report.
Secretary of Agriculture shall make annual report to Congress of the amounts refunded hereunder ;
In all, for general expenses, two million seven hundred and fourteen
thousand four hundred and twenty dollars. IMPROVEMENT OF THE NATIONAL FORESTS : For the construction permanent im-
and maintenance of roads, trails, bridges, fire lanes, telephone lines,
cabins, fences, and other permanent improvements necessary for the proper and economical administration, protection, and development of the National Forests, five hundred thousand dollars.
Not to exceed fifteen per centum of the total of all sums appro- prIonptreiractihoannsg.eable ap-

priated under "General Expenses, Forest Service," and under "Im-

provement of the National Forests," may be used in the discretion of the Secretary Agriculture as provided above under " General

Expenses, Forest Service," and under "Improvement of the National
Forests," for all expenses necessary for the general administration of the Forest Service.

Total for Forest Service, five million five hundred and thirty-three thousand one hundred dollars.
That the head of the department having jurisdiction over the lands eleRcitgrhitcslinoefs.way for be, and he hereby is, authorized and empowered, under general regu- afGtryaynetasrsaolvleorwepudblfiocr
lations to be fixed by him, to grant an easement for rights of way, for lands, national for a period not exceeding fifty years from the date of the issuance of ests,etc.
such grant, over, across, and upon the public lands, national forests,
and reservations of the United States for electrical poles and lines for the transmission and distribution of electrical power, and for poles

and lines for telephone and telegraph purposes, to the extent of twenty

88740°-VOL 36, IT 1-11-81

1254

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

feet on each side of the center line of such electrical, telephone and

telegraph lines and poles, to any citizen, association, or corporation

of the United States, where it is intended by such to exercise the

Provisos. Official approval re-

right

of

way

herein

granted

for

any

one

or

more

of

the

purposes

quired.

herein named : Provided, That such right of way shall be allowed

within or through any national park, national forest, military, Indian,

or any other reservation only upon the approval of the chief officer

of the department under whose supervision or control such reserva-

Forfeiture.

tion falls, and upon a finding by him that the same is not incompatible with the public interest: Provided, That all or any part of such right of way may be forfeited and annulled by declaration of the head

of the department having jurisdiction over the lands for nonuse for a

period of two years or for abandonment.

Existing permits.

That any citizen, association, or corporation of the United States

to whom there has heretofore been issued a permit for any of the purposes specified herein under any existing law, may obtain the benefit

of this Act upon the same terms and conditions as shall be required of citizens, associations, or corporations hereafter making applica-

tion under the provisions of this statute.

Chemistry Bureau.

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.

Salaries. Clerks, etc.

SALARIES, BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY: One chemist, who shall be chief of bureau, five thousand dollars ; one chief clerk, two thousand

dollars ; five clerks, class four; six clerks, class three; one clerk, one

thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; twelve clerks, class two ;

one clerk, one thousand three hundred dollars ; eighteen clerks, class one; thirteen clerks, at one thousand and twenty dollars each ; eleven

clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; eighteen clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each; one clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one

Inspectors, etc.

property clerk, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one assistant property custodian, nine hundred dollars ; one chief food and drug inspector, two thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars; one food

and drug inspector, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; six

food and drug inspectors, at two thousand dollars each ; thirteen food

and drug inspectors, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; one

food and drug inspector, one thousand six hundred and twenty

dollars; eleven food and drug inspectors, at one thousand six hun-

dred dollars each; eight food and drug inspectors, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; one laboratory helper, one thousand and

twenty dollars ; four laboratory helpers, at one thousand dollars each; four laboratory helpers, at nine hundred and sixty dollars

each; two laboratory helpers, at nine hundred dollars each ; six

laboratory helpers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; two

laboratory helpers, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each; seventeen laboratory helpers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two laboratory helpers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ;

nineteen laboratory helpers or laborers, at six hundred dollars each; one laboratory assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one tool

maker, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one janitor, one thousand

and twenty dollars ; one student assistant, three hundred dollars;
erMse,sestce.ngers, labor two messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; one skilled laborer, nine hundred dollars ; two skilled laborers, at seven hundred

and twenty dollars each ; one skilled laborer, six hundred dollars; four messengers or laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; two mes-

senger boys or laborers, at five hundred and forty dollars each;

eight messenger boys or laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars

each ; three messenger boys or laborers, at four hundred and twenty

dollars each; one messenger or laborer, three hundred and sixty dollars ; six charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; in

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1255

all, two hundred and forty-two thousand one hundred and ninety dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY: For necessary expenses in conducting the investigations contemplated by the Act of May fifteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, relating to the application of chemistry to agriculture in the most general and comprehensive sense of that word, and to continue collaboration

expenses. General expen

with other departments of the Government desiring chemical inves-
tigations and whose heads request the Secretary of Agriculture for such assistance, and for other miscellaneous work, as follows :
For chemical apparatus, chemicals and supplies, repairs to appa, etcA.pparatus,supplies,
ratus, gas, electric current, official traveling expenses, telegraph and telephone service, express and freight charges, thirty-six thousand dollars ;
For rent and the employment of such assistants, clerks, and other ,tiRones,nettc,.investigapersons, as the Secretary of Agriculture may consider necessary for the purposes named, in the city of Washington and elsewhere, in
conducting investigations, collating and reporting the results of such investigations, and for the rent of buildings in the city of Washington and elsewhere, seventy-one thousand two hundred dollars ;
For investigating the character of the chemical and physical tests eiIgnnvteessttsiogfaftoiondgprfoordwhich are applied to American food products in foreign countries, ucts, etc. and for inspecting the same before shipment when desired by the shippers or owners of these products intended for countries where chemical and physical tests are required before the said products are allowed to be sold therein, and for all necessary expenses in connec-
tion with such inspection and studies of methods of analysis in foreign courtries, four thousand two hundred and eighty dollars ;
In all, for general expenses, one hundred and eleven thousand four hundred and eighty dollars;
Pure food inspec ENFORCEMENT OF THE FOOD AND DRUGS AOT: For enabling the tion. Secretary of Agriculture to carry into effect the provisions of the Vol. 34, p. 768. Act of June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and six, entitled " An Act for
preventing the manufacture, sale, or transportation of adulterated,
or misbranded, or poisonous, or deleterious foods, drugs, medicines, and liquors, and for regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes,'
in the city of Washington and elsewhere, including chemical appa-
ratus, chemicals and supplies, repairs to apparatus, rent, gas, electric
current, official traveling expenses, telegraph and telephone service,
express and freight charges, and all other expenses, employing such

assistants, clerks, and other persons as may be considered necessary for the purposes named, six hundred and ten thousand one hundred and ten dollars.

Total of Bureau of Chemistry, nine hundred and sixty-three thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars.

BUREAU OF SOILS.

Bureau ofSoils.

SALARIES, BUREAU OF SOILS: One soil physicist, who shall be chief of bureau, four thousand dollars ; one chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; one executive assistant, two thousand dollars; three clerks, class four; two clerks, class three; three clerks, class two ; one clerk, one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars; eight clerks, class one; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; three clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one soil bibliographer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; three draftsmen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; one draftsman, one thousand dollars ; one photographer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one messenger, messenger boy, or laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; one messenger boy, three hundred and

Salaries.

1256

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

sixty dollars ; one laborer, six hundred dollars ; one laborer, three

hundred dollars ; one charwoman or laborer, four hundred and

General expenses.

eighty dollars ; in all, forty-eight thousand three hundred and twenty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF SOILS: For all necessary expenses,

including rent and the employment of investigators, local and special

agents, assistants, and labor required in the city of Washington and

elsewhere, official traveling expenses, materials, tools, instruments,

and apparatus for carrying out the investigations and experiments

herein authorized, as follows:

Climate and organic life.

For the investigation of the relation of soils to climate and organic

life and of the texture and composition of soils in the field and

laboratory, fifty-one thousand six hundred dollars; Natural fertilizers. For exploration and investigation within the United States to

determine a possible source of supply of potash, nitrates, and other

natural fertilizers, twelve thousand five hundred dollars, two thou-

sand five hundred dollars of which shall be immediately available ;

Investigations, maps, etc.

For the investigation of soils, and for indicating upon maps and

plats, by coloring or otherwise, the results of such investigations,

one hundred and forty-five thousand dollars : Provided, That not

more than ten per centum of this sum shall be expended in any one

State ;

Administrative ex-

penses.

For general administrative expenses connected with the above-

mentioned lines of investigation, four thousand six hundred and

forty dollars ; In all; for general expenses, two hundred and thirteen thousand
seven hundred and forty dollars.

Total for Bureau of Soils, two hundred and sixty-two thousand

and sixty dollars.

Bureau of Entomology .

BUREAU OF ENTOMOLOGY.

Salaries. Entomologist, clerks,

SALARIES, BUREAU OF ENTOMOLOGY: One entomologist, who shall

etc.

be chief of bureau, four thousand five hundred dollars ; one execu-

tive assistant, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; one

chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one clerk, class four;

two clerks, class three ; six clerks, class two; four clerks, class one; five clerks, at one thousand dollars each; two clerks, at nine hundred

dollars each ; one clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one

artist, one thousand four hundred dollars; one superintendent of

moth work, two thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; one

Technical assistants. assistant superintendent of moth work, one thousand and eighty

dollars; one entomological assistant, one thousand eight hundred

dollars ; one entomological draftsman, one thousand four hundred

dollars; one entomological draftsman, one thousand and eighty dol-

lars ; three foremen, at one thousand and eighty dollars each ; one

entomological assistant, nine hundred dollars ; two entomological

preparators, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one entomological

preparator, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; six entomological

preparators, at six hundred dollars each ; two student assistants, at

three hundred dollars each ; one messenger, eight hundred and forty

dollars ; two messengers or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty

dollars each ; one mechanic, eight hundred and forty dollars ; one

mechanic, seven hundred and fifty dollars ; one laborer, five hundred

and forty dollars ; two charwomen, at four hundred and eighty dol-

lars each; one charwoman, two hundred and forty dollars ; in all,

sixty thousand one hundred and thirty dollars.

General expenses.

Investigation of in- GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF ENTOMOLOGY: For the promotion

sects, etc.

of economic entomology; for investigating the history and the habits

of insects injurious and beneficial to agriculture, horticulture, and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 238. 1911.

1257

arboriculture, and ascertaining the best means of destroying those found to be injurious ; for salaries, the employment of labor, and rent

in the city of Washington and elsewhere, freight, express charges,

official traveling expenses, office fixtures, supplies, apparatus, tele graph and telephone service, gas, and electric current, in connection

with the following investigations: For investigations of insects affecting deciduous fruits, orchards, Fruit trees, etc.

vineyards, nuts, and so forth, including investigations of the pear thrips, cranberry insects, and apple maggots, thirty-nine thousand seven hundred dollars ;

For investigations of insects affecting cereal and forage plants, plGarntasi. n and forage fifty thousand dollars, ten thousand dollars of which sum shall be immediately available;

For investigations of insects affecting southern field crops, includ- crSoopsu. thern field ing the cotton boll weevil and other insects injurious to cotton, insects affecting tobacco, rice, and sugar cane, the Argentine ant, and

life history studies of ticks, forty-seven thousand one hundred and sixty dollars ;

For investigations of insects affecting forests, forty-four thousand Forests. seven hundred and fifty dollars;

For investigations of insects affecting truck crops, stored grains , grTariunc, ektcc.rops, stored

and other stored products, nineteen thousand one hundred dollars ;

For investigations in bee culture, fifteen thousand dollars;

Bee culture.

Citrus fruits.

For investigations of insects affecting citrus fruits, including the

white fly, orange thrips, and scale insects, twenty-one thousand five hundred dollars;

For investigations of miscellaneous insects, inspection work, study woArdkm. inistrative of insects affecting the health of man and animals, insecticides, and

the importation and exchange of useful insects, nineteen thousand seven hundred and forty dollars;
In all, for general expenses, two hundred and fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars.

PREVENTING SPREAD OF MOTHS: To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to meet the emergency caused by the continued spread of the gypsy and brown-tail moths by establishing and maintaining a quarantine against further spread in such manner as he shall deem best, in cooperation with the authorities of the different States concerned and with the several State experiment stations, including rent and employment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all other necessary expenses, two hundred and eightyfour thousand eight hundred and forty dollars.
Total for Bureau of Entomology, six hundred and one thousand

mpostyhas.nd brown-

nine hundred and twenty dollars.

BUREAU OF BIOLOGICAL SURVEY.

Bureau ofBiological Survey.

SALARIES, BUREAU OF BIOLOGICAL SURVEY: One biologist, who shall be chief of bureau, three thousand five hundred dollars ; one chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; one clerk, class four; one clerk, class three; one clerk, class two ; four clerks, class one; three clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; two clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; one photographer, one thousand three hundred dollars ; one warden, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one messenger, messenger boy, or laborer, four hundred and eighty dollars ; one laborer, six hundred dollars ; in all, twenty-four thousand dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF BIOLOGICAL SURVEY: For salaries, employment of labor, and rent in the city of Washington and elsewhere, furniture, supplies, traveling, and all other expenses necessary in conducting investigations and carrying out the work of the bureau, as follows:

Salaries. General expenses.

1258

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

Preventing shipment of prohibited

For the enforcement of sections two hundred and forty-one, two

birds, etc. Vol. 35, p. 1137.

hundred and forty-two, two hundred and forty-three, and two hun-

dred and forty-four of the Act approved March fourth, nineteen hun-

dred and nine, entitled "An Act to codify, revise, and amend the

inPgreilvleengatlilyngkcialrlreyd penal laws of the United States," and for the enforcement of section

game. Vol. 31, p. 187.

one of the Act approved May twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred, entitled

"An Act to enlarge the powers of the Department of Agriculture,

prohibit the transportation by interstate commerce of game killed in

violation of local laws, and for other purposes," twelve thousand

dollars ;

Reservations for mammals and birds.

Forthe maintenance of the Montana National Bison Range and other

Maintenance, etc. reservations for mammals and birds, and for the enforcement of sec-

Vol. 35, p. 1104. tion eighty-four of the Act approved March fourth , nineteen hundred

and nine, entitled " An Act to codify, revise, and amend the penal laws of the United States," fourteen thousand five hundred dollars, of which sum two thousand five hundred dollars shall be used for the

Elk in Wyoming. Feeding, etc.

purchase, capture , and transportation of game for national reservations ;
For the feeding, protecting, and removal of elk in the country known as Jackson's Hole and vicinity, in the State of Wyoming,

twenty thousand dollars, to become immediately available, and

remain available until expended ;

Food habits of native birds and mam-

For investigating the food habits of North American birds and

mals.

mammals in relation to agriculture, horticulture, and forestry,

including experiments and demonstrations in destroying noxious

animals, thirty-five thousand dollars ;

Biological investi-

gations.

For biological investigations, including the relations, habits, geo-

graphic distribution, and migrations of animals ana plants, and the

preparation of maps of the life and crop zones, twenty thousand

dollars ;

Administrative ex-

penses.

For general administrative expenses connected with the above-

mentioned lines of work, including cooperation with other Federal

bureaus, departments, boards, and commissions on request from them,

fourteen thousand two hundred dollars ;

In all,for general expenses, one hundred and fifteen thousand seven hundred dollars .

Total for Bureau of Biological Survey, one hundred and thirty-nine thousand seven hundred dollars.

Accounts and Dis bursements Division.

DIVISION OF ACCOUNTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

Salaries.

SALARIES, DIVISION OF ACCOUNTS AND DISBURSEMENTS : One chief

of division and disbursing clerk, who shall be administrative officer of

the fiscal affairs of the department, three thousand seven hundred

and fifty dollars; one assistant chief of division, two thousand five 'ForFiessctaSleravigceen.ts for hundred dollars ; one chief of office of accounts and fiscal agent, who
may be detailed to the Forest Service for duty in or out of the city

of Washington, two thousand five hundred dollars ; seven district fiscal agents, at two thousand dollars each , who may be detailed to

the Forest Service for duty in or out of the city of Washington ; one supervising auditor, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ;

one auditor, two thousand dollars ; one cashier and chief clerk, two

thousand dollars ; one deputy disbursing clerk, two thousand dollars ; one supervising bookkeeper, one thousand eight hundred dollars ;

two clerks, class four ; ten clerks, class three ; sixteen clerks, class two ; nine clerks, class one ; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each;

six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; one custodian of records and

files, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one messenger, six hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

1259

The

deputy

disbursing

clerk

herein

provided

for

shall

hereafter Deputy disbursing clerk.

have authority to sign checks in the name of the disbursing clerk; etcA.uthority, bond,

he shall give bond to the United States in such sum as the Secretary

of the Treasury may require, and when so acting for the disbursing

clerk shall be subject to all the liabilities and penalties prescribed by law for the official misconduct in like cases of the disbursing clerk for whom he acts, and the official bond of the disbursing clerk exe-

cuted shall also be made to cover and apply to the acts of the deputy

disbursing clerk.

Total for Division of Accounts and Disbursements, ninety-seven

thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

DIVISION OF PUBLICATIONS.

Publications Division.

SALARIES, DIVISION OF PUBLICATIONS : One editor, who shall be Salaries. chief of division, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; one editor, who shall be assistant chief of division, two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ; one chief clerk, two thousand dollars ; two assistant editors, at two thousand dollars each ; one assistant editor, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; three assistant editors, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; one assistant editor, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one assistant editor, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one assistant editor in charge of indexing, two thousand dollars; one indexer, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one assistant in charge of illustrations, two thousand dollars; one draftsman or photographer, one thousand five hundred dollars ; two draftsmen or photographers, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; six draftsmen or photographers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; one assistant photographer, nine hundred dollars ; one assistant in charge of document section, two thousand dollars ; one assistant in document section, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one foreman, miscellaneous distribution, one thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant foreman, miscellaneous distribution, one thousand one hundred
dollars ; one foreman, farmers' bulletin distribution, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one forewoman, one thousand four hundred dollars ; one forewoman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one clerk, class two ; six clerks, class one ; twelve clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; eleven clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; thirty-eight clerks or skilled laborers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; fifteen clerks or skilled laborers, at seven hundred and eighty dollars each ; fifty clerks or skilled laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; one chief folder, one thousand dollars ; five folders, at nine hundred dollars each; two skilled laborers, at one thousand dollars each ; two messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; four messengers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; three messengers, at six hundred dollars each ; two messengers or messenger boys, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; two messengers or messenger boys, at four hundred and twenty dollars each ;
two messengers or messenger boys, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; two laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ; one laborer, six hundred dollars ; four charwomen, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; three charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each; in all, one hundred and seventy-nine thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, DIVISION OF PUBLICATIONS : For miscellaneous General expenses.
objects of expenditure in connection with the publication, indexing, illustration, and distribution of bulletins, documents, and reports, as follows:
Bent. For rent in the city of Washington, five thousand dollars ;

1260

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

Supplies, etc.

For labor-saving machinery for addressing and mailing documents, including necessary supplies, three thousand dollars;
For envelopes, stationery, and materials used in the distribution of documents, eleven thousand five hundred dollars ;
For office furniture and fixtures, one thousand dollars ; For photographic equipment and for photographic materials and artists' tools and supplies, five thousand dollars ; For gas, electric current, telephone and telegraph service, and freight and express charges, five hundred dollars ; For wagons, bicycles, horses, harness, and maintenance of the same, one thousand dollars ;
For purchase of manuscripts, traveling expenses, electrotypes, illustrations, and other expenses not otherwise provided for, three thousand dollars ;
In all, for general expenses, thirty thousand dollars. Total for Division of Publications, two hundred and nine thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.

Bureau of Statistics.

BUREAU OF STATISTICS.

Salaries.

SALARIES, BUREAU OF STATISTICS : One statistician, who shall be

chief of bureau, four thousand dollars ; one assistant statistician, who

shall be assistant chief of bureau, two thousand five hundred dollars ;

one chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; six clerks, class

four ; nine clerks, class three; twelve clerks, class two; two clerks, at

one thousand three hundred dollars each ; seventeen clerks, class one;

eleven clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; ten clerks, at nine hun-

dred dollars each; eleven clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; two messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each ; two

messengers or laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ;

two messengers or laborers, at six hundred and sixty dollars each ;

one messenger or messenger boy, four hundred and eighty dollars;

General expenses.

one charwoman, five hundred and forty dollars ; two charwomen, at three hundred and sixty dollars each; in all, one hundred and eight thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, BUREAU OF STATISTICS : For all necessary

expenses for collecting domestic and foreign agricultural statistics,

compiling, writing, and illustrating statistical matter for monthly,

annual, and special reports, and for special investigations and com-

pilations, as follows :

Administration expenses.

Salaries, employment of labor, and rent in the city of Washington

and elsewhere, supplies, telegraph and telephone service, freight and

express charges, and all other necessary miscellaneous administra-

tive expenses, twenty-four thousand seven hundred dollars ;

Special field agents. Salaries and traveling and other necessary expenses of special field

agents, sixty-three thousand five hundred dollars ;

State agents.

Salaries and traveling and other necessary expenses of State

Travel, etc.

statistical agents, thirty-two thousand two hundred dollars ; Traveling and other necessary expenses of officials and special
investigators, two thousand five hundred dollars;

In all, for general expenses, one hundred and twenty- two thousand nine hundred dollars.

Total for Bureau of Statistics , two hundred and thirty-one thousand

six hundred and twenty dollars.

Library. Salarics.

LIBRARY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
SALARIES, LIBRARY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE : One librarian, two thousand dollars ; one clerk, class three ; one clerk, class two ; two clerks, class one, one of whom shall be a translator ; five clerks, at. one thousand dollars each ; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III CH. 238. 1911 . 15

1261

one clerk, eight hundred and forty dollars ; two cataloguers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; three cataloguers, at one thousand dollars each; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one messenger, six hundred dollars; two messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; one charwoman, four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, twenty-five thousand dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, LIBRARY: For books of reference, technical Generalexpenses.
and scientific books, papers and periodicals, and for expenses incurred in completing imperfect series; for rent and the employment of additional assistants in the city of Washington and elsewhere ; for official traveling expenses, and for library fixtures, library cards, supplies, Proviso. and other material , fifteen thousand five hundred dollars: Provided, Detallsto and from
That hereafter employees of the Library may be temporarily detailed otherbureaus. by the Secretary of Agriculture for library service in the bureaus and offices of the department, and employees of the bureaus and offices of
the department engaged in library work may also be temporarily detailed to the Library.
Total for Library, forty thousand five hundred dollars.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE : For sta- Contingentexpenses
tionery, blank books, twine, paper, gum, dry goods, soap, brushes, brooms, mats, oils, paints, glass, lumber, hardware, ice, fuel, water and gas pipes, heating apparatus, furniture, carpets, and matting; for lights, freight, express charges, advertising, telegraphing, telephoning, postage, washing towels, and necessary repairs and improvements to buildings and heating apparatus; for rent in the District of Columbia; Rent. for the purchase, subsistence, and care of horses and the purchase and repair of harness and vehicles, for official purposes only; for the payment of duties on imported articles, and the Department of Agriculture's proportionate share of the expense of the dispatch agent in NewYork; for official traveling expenses ; and for other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for, and necessary for the practical and efficient work of the department, one hundred and ten thousand dollars.

OFFICE OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS.

Office of Experiment Stations.

SALARIES, OFFICE OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS: One director, four Salaries thousand five hundred dollars ; one chief clerk, two thousand dollars; one computer, two thousand dollars ; one draftsman, one thousand
eight hundred dollars ; one clerk and proof reader, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one editorial clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars; one editorial clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one draftsman, one thousand two hundred dollars; five clerks, class two; seven clerks, class one; six clerks, at one thousand dollars each; four
clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; nine clerks or messengers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one clerk or messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars; three clerks, messengers, or laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; four messengers, messenger boys, or laborers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; one copyist or laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; five laborers or charwomen, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; two laborers or charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; in all, fifty-six thousand five hundred dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, OFFICE OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS : To carry tuSruplpeoxrpteroifmaegnrticsutla--
into effect the provisions of an Act approved March second, eighteen tion. hundred and eighty-seven, entitled " An Act to establish agricultural Vol. 24 , p. 440. experiment stations in connection with the colleges established in the

1262

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911.

Vol. 12, p. 503. several States under the provision of an Act approved July second,

eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and of the Acts supplementary thereto," the sums apportioned to the several States and Territories

to be paid quarterly in advance, seven hundred and twenty thousand

dollars ;

Allotment of in- To carry into effect the provisions of an Act approved March six-

creased appropria

tion.

teenth , nineteen hundred and six, entitled "An Act to provide for

Vol. 34, p. 63.

an increased annual appropriation for agricultural experiment sta-

Proviso.

tions and regulating the expenditure thereof," the sums apportioned to the several States and Territories to be paid quarterly in advance, seven hundred and twenty thousand dollars : Provided, That not to

Limit.

exceed fifteen thousand dollars shall be paid to each State and Terri-

tory under this Act ;

Expenses of administration, etc.

To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to enforce the provisions of

the above Acts, relative to their administration, including rent and

the employment of clerks, assistants, and other persons in the city of

Washington and elsewhere, freight and express charges, official traveling expenses, office fixtures, supplies, apparatus, telegraph and

Statements.

telephone service, gas, and electric current, thirty-seven thousand five hundred dollars ; and the Secretary of Agriculture shall prescribe the form of the annual financial statement required under the above

acts, ascertain whether the expenditures are in accordance with their

Stations in Alaska, provisions, and make report thereon to Congress ; Hawaii Porto Rico, To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and maintain

and Guam.

agricultural experiment stations in Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, and

the island of Guam, including the erection of buildings, the prepara-

tion, illustration, and distribution of reports and bulletins, and all

1

other necessary expenses, one hundred and five thousand dollars, as

follows : Alaska, thirty thousand dollars ; Hawaii, thirty thousand

dollars ; Porto Rico, thirty thousand dollars, and Guam, fifteen

thousand dollars ; and the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to

etSc.ale of products, sell such products as are obtained on the land belonging to the agricultural experiment stations in Alaska, IIawaii, Porto Rico, and the

island of Guam, and to apply the money received from the sale of

such products to the maintenance of said stations, and this fund shall be available until used ;

Report, etc., on farmers' institutes,

To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to investigate and report

etc.

upon the organization and progress of farmers' institutes and agri-

cultural schools in the several States and Territories, and upon similar

organizations in foreign countries, with special suggestions of plans and methods for making such organizations more effective for the dissemination of the results of the work of the Department of Agri-

culture and the agricultural experiment stations, and of improved

methods of agricultural practice, including rent and the employment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all other necessary expenses, ten thousand dollars ;

In all, for general expenses, one million five hundred and ninety-

two thousand five hundred dollars.

Nutrition investigntions.

NUTRITION INVESTIGATIONS : To enable the Secretary of Agricul-

ture to investigate the nutritive value of agricultural products used

for human food, with special suggestions of plans and methods for the more effective utilization of such products for this purpose, with

the cooperation of other bureaus of the department, and to dissemi-

nate useful information on this subject, including rent and the employ-

ment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all other necessary expenses, fifteen thousand dollars.

Trrigation investigations.

IRRIGATION INVESTIGATIONS : To enable the Secretary of Agricul-

ture to investigate and report upon the laws of the States and Terri-

tories as affecting irrigation and the rights of appropriators, and of

riparian proprietors and institutions relating to irrigation, and upon

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 238. 1911 .

1263

the use of irrigation waters, at home and abroad, with especial suggestions of the best methods for the utilization of irrigation waters in agriculture, and upon the use of different kinds of power and appli-
ances for irrigation, and for the preparation and illustration of reports and bulletins on irrigation, including rent and the employment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all necessary expenses, one hundred thousand dollars.
DRAINAGE INVESTIGATIONS : To enable the Secretary of Agriculture tiDornasi. nage investiga to investigate and report upon the drainage of swamp and other wet lands and to prepare plans for the removal of surplus waters by drainage and for the preparation and illustration of reports and bulletins on drainage, including rent and the employment of labor in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and all necessary expenses, one hundred thousand dollars. And the Secretary of Agriculture shall make a special report to the next session of Congress giving the aggregate expenditures under this provision, and the areas in the several States and Territories which have been investigated .
Total for Office of Experiment Stations, one million eight hundred and sixty-four thousand dollars.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC ROADS.

Public Roads Office.

Salaries. SALARIES, OFFICE OF PUBLIC ROADS : One director, who shall be a scientist and have charge of all scientific and technical work, four thousand dollars ; one chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; one clerk, class three ; one clerk, one thousand four hundred dollars;
one clerk, one thousand three hundred and twenty dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand two hundred and sixty dollars each; three clerks, class one; one clerk or photographer, one thousand two hundred dollars; one clerk or photographer, one thousand dollars ; two clerks, at
one thousand one hundred and forty dollars each; one clerk, one
thousand and eighty dollars ; one clerk, one thousand and twenty dollars ; four clerks, at one thousand dollars each; one clerk, nino hundred dollars ; one instrument maker, one thousand two hundred
dollars ; one messenger or laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; one messenger or laborer, six hundred and sixty dollars ; four messen-
gers or laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; one messenger boy, four
hundred and eighty dollars; one messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; two charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each ; in all, thirty-four thousand and twenty dollars.
GENERAL EXPENSES, OFFICE OF PUBLIC KOADS : For salaries, and General expenses. the employment of labor, and rent in the city of Washington and elsewhere, supplies, office fixtures, apparatus, traveling and all other necessary expenses for conducting investigations and experiments, and
for collating, reporting, and illustrating the results of same, and for
preparing, publishing, and distributing bulletins and reports as Proviso. follows: Provided, That no part of these appropriations shall be
expended for the rent or purchase of road-making machinery, except such as may be necessary for field experimental work as hereinafter provided for:
For inquiries in regard to systems of road management throughout Road management. the United States and for giving expert advice on this subject, twenty thousand dollars;
For investigations of the best methods of road making and the best maRteoraidalsm.aking and kinds of road-making materials, and for furnishing expert advice on road building and maintenance, sixty thousand dollars;
For investigations of the chemical and physical character of roadCvheestmiigactiaolns,. etc., inmaterials, twenty-five thousand dollars ;

1264

SIXTY- FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 238. 1911 .

Field experiments,

etc.

For conducting field experiments and various methods of road con-

struction and maintenance, and investigations concerning various road materials and preparations ; for investigating and developing

equipment intended for the preparation and application of bitumi-

nous and other binders ; for the purchase of materials and equipment ;

for the employment of assistants and labor; for the rental and erec-

tion of buildings ; such experimental work to be confined as nearly

Administrative ex- as possible to one point during the fiscal year, ten thousand dollars;

penses.

For general administrative expenses connected with the above-

mentioned lines of investigations and experiments, eleven thousand

seven hundred dollars ;

In all, for general expenses, one hundred and twenty-six thousand seven hundred dollars.

Total for Office of Public Roads, one hundred and sixty thousand

seven hundred and twenty dollars.

Interchangeable

appropriations.

And not to exceed ten per centum of the foregoing amounts for the

miscellaneous expenses of the work of any bureau, division, or office

herein provided for shall be available interchangeably for expenditure

on the objects included within the general expenses of such bureau,

division, or office, but no more than ten per centum shall be added to

any one item of appropriation except in cases of extraordinary

emergency, and then only upon the written order of the Secretary of

Agriculture.

Total, Department of Agriculture, for routine and ordinary work,

fifteen million eight hundred and eight thousand and sixteen dollars.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Food supplies. Cost at farm and to

And the Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized to continue

consumer.

investigations on the cost of food supplies at the farm and to the

consumer, and to disseminate the results of such investigations in

whatever manner he may deem best.

Insecticide act. Expenses of enforc- ENFORCEMENT OF THE INSECTICIDE ACT: To enable the Secretary

ing. Ante, p. 331.

of Agriculture to carry into effect the provisions of the Act of April

twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act for pre-

venting the manufacture, sale, or transportation of adulterated or

misbranded Paris greens, lead arsenates, and other insecticides, and

also fungicides and for regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes," in the city of Washington and elsewhere, including chemical

apparatus, chemicals, and supplies, repairs to apparatus, rent, gas, electric current, official traveling expenses, telegraph and telephone

service, express and freight charges, and all other expenses, employing

such assistants, clerks, and other persons as may be considered nec-

essary for the purposes named, eighty-seven thousand dollars.

Emergencyforfighting forest fires.

For fighting and preventing forest fires in cases of extraordinary

emergency, one million dollars.

Chestnut tree bark disease.

For the study and examination into the nature and habit of the

Study, etc., of. chestnut tree bark disease, and for the purpose of discovering reme-

dies by means of which it may be destroyed, checked or controlled,

five thousand dollars, to become immediately available. Detailed statements, That the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act making appropria-

propriation, repeal- tions for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal year ending

ed.

Vol. 34, pp. 1270, June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight," requiring the Secretary

1282.

of Agriculture to submit to Congress classified and detailed reports of

receipts and classified and detailed estimates and reports of expenditures by the Forest Service, and classified and detailed estimates and

reports of every subject of expenditure by the Agricultural Depart-

ment; statements showing all appointments, promotions, or other

changes made in the salaries paid from lump funds, are hereby

repealed .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 238, 239. 1911 .

1265

That the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare or cause to be pre- SFtoartesetmeSnertviocfe. ex-
pared a statement showing all expenditures made each fiscal year by, p19e1n0d.itures, 1900 to through, or on account of the Forest Service from the year nineteen hundred to the year nineteen hundred and ten, both inclusive, stated as follows:

For permanent forest improvements in each State and Territory ; for salaries and other compensation of inspectors, forest supervisors,
forest rangers, deputy forest rangers, assistant forest rangers, stating the number of each class ; for part time force to meet emergencies in extinguishing forest fires; for railroad fares, automobile hire, carriage and horse hire; for hotel bills ; for freight and express ; for telephone and telegraph; for statutory and lump-fund salaries of officers and clerks and the number thereof in the city of Washington, and all other expenditures made for the conduct of the bureau in the city of Washington, including rent, fuel, stationery, furniture, furnishings, typewriters, giving number purchased, miscellaneous supplies, giving classification of same; for salaries, clerk hire, hotel bills, automobile, carriage and horse híre, miscellaneous supplies, giving classification thereof, office supplies, and all other expenditures made in connection with the conduct of the Forest Service outside of the city of Washington; for compensation of persons engaged in writing descriptive or other matter for publication, giving names of persons so employed and amount paid to each therefor, and names of publications accepting such matter for publication and amount paid to each therefor; for photographs, lantern slides, lecture equipment and lecturers ; for printing and binding; said statement to show also for the same period of time the amounts collected by the Forest Service for timber and the use of the forests.

Details required.

That hereafter officers and employees of the Department of Agri- exEpmepnlsoeyeoefstarlanlsofweerdculture transferred from one official station to another for permanent ring property when
duty, when authorized by the Secretary of Agriculture, may be stations changed. allowed actual traveling expenses, including charges for the transfer of their effects and personal property used in official work, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Total carried by this bill for the Department of Agriculture, sixteen million nine hundred thousand and sixteen dollars.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

CHAP. 239.-An Act Making appropriations for the naval service forthe fiscal year March 4, 1911.

endingJune thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

[H. R. 32212.]

·

[Public, No. 479.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, proNparviaaltiosnesr.vice ap-

and they are hereby, appropriated, to be paid out of any money in

the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the naval service of the

Government for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

PAY OF THE NAVY.

Pay of Navy.

Pay and allowances prescribed by law of officers on sea duty and other duty; officers on waiting orders; officers on the retired list ; clerks to paymasters and not exceeding ten clerks to accounting officers at yards and stations, general storekeepers ashore and afloat not exceeding ten clerks, and receiving ships, and other vessels ; two clerks to general inspectors of Pay Corps ; one clerk to pay officer in charge of deserters' rolls ; commutation of quarters for officers on shore not occupying public quarters, including boatswains, gunners,

1266

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

carpenters, sailmakers, machinists, pharmacists, and mates, naval constructors and assistant naval constructors ; and also members of Nurse Corps (female) ; for hire of quarters for officers serving with

troops where there are no public quarters belonging to the Government, and where there are not sufficient quarters possessed by the United States to accommodate them, or commutation of quarters not to exceed the amount which an officer would receive were he not

serving with troops ; pay of enlisted men on the retired list ; extra pay to men reenlisting under honorable discharge ; interest on deposits by men; pay of petty officers, seamen, landsmen, and apprentice seamen, including men in the engineers' force and men detailed for

duty with Naval Militia, and for the Fish Commission, forty-four thousand men; and the number of enlisted men shall be exclusive

Machinists.

of those undergoing imprisonment with sentence of dishonorable discharge from the service at expiration of such confinement ; and as many machinists as the President may from time to time deem necessary to appoint, not to exceed twenty in any one year ; and three thousand five hundred apprentice seamen under training at training stations and on board training ships, at the pay prescribed by law;

pay of the Nurse Corps ; rent of quarters for members of the Nurse

Corps; thirty-five million sixty-nine thousand and twenty-six dollars.

Volunteer officers, War with Spain.

That the accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized

opAecnceodu, nettcs. to be re- and directed to open and resettle, upon application, the accounts of volunteer officers of the Navy who served in the War with Spain,

and to resettle such accounts in accordance with the decision of the

Supreme Court of the United States in the case of the United States against John M. Hite, reported in Two hundred and fourth United States Reports, page three hundred and forty-three.

Pay, miscellaneous.

PAY, MISCELLANEOUS.

Schedule of, and

allowances, to be sent The Secretary of the Navy shall send to Congress at the beginning

to Congress.

of its next regular session a complete schedule or list showing the

Miscellaneous penses.

amount in money of all pay under the provisions of this Act and for all allowances for each grade of officers in the Navy, including retired
officers, and for all officers included in this Act and for all enlisted men so included . ex-
For commissions and interest; transportation of funds ; exchange;
mileage to officers while traveling under orders in the United States,

and for actual personal expenses of officers while traveling abroad under orders, and for traveling expenses of civilian employees, and for actual and necessary traveling expenses of midshipmen while proceeding from their homes to the Naval Academy for examination and

appointment as midshipmen; for actual traveling expenses of female

nurses ; for rent of buildings and offices not in navy yards ; expenses of courts-martial, prisoners and prisons, and courts of inquiry, boards of inspection, examining boards, with clerks' and witnesses' fees, and

traveling expenses and costs ; stationery and recording; expenses of purchasing paymasters' offices of the various cities, including clerks, furniture, fuel, stationery, and incidental expenses ; newspapers ; all

advertising for the Navy Department and its bureaus (except advertising for recruits for the Bureau of Navigation) ; copying; care of

library, including the purchase of books, photographs, prints, manuscripts, and periodicals ; ferriage ; tolls ; costs of suits ; commissions, warrants, diplomas, and discharges ; relief of vessels in distress ; recovery of valuables from shipwrecks ; quarantine expenses ; reports;

professional investigation ; cost of special instruction at home and abroad, in maintenance of students and attachés ; information from

abroad, and the collection and classification thereof; all charges pertaining to the Navy Department and its bureaus for ice for the cooling

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1267

of drinking water on shore (except at naval hospitals), telephone rentals and tolls, telegrams, cablegrams, and postage, foreign and
domestic, and post-office box rentals ; and other necessary and inci- Proviso. dental expenses : Provided, That the sum to be paid out of this appro- Allowance for cleri-
priation, under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, for clerical, ycaalr,dse,tect.c,. service in inspection, and messenger service in navy yards, naval stations, and purchasing pay offices for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed two hundred and fiftyfour thousand six hundred and fifty-four dollars and twenty-five cents; in all, one million dollars.

CONTINGENT, NAVY: For all emergencies and extraordinary expenses, exclusive of personal services in the Navy Department, or any of its subordinate bureaus or offices at Washington, District of Columbia, arising at home or abroad, but impossible to be anticipated or classified, to be expended on the approval and authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and for such purposes as he may deem proper,

Contingent.

forty-six thousand dollars: Provided, That the accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and directed to allow, in the settlement of accounts of disbursing officers involved, payments made under the appropriation " Contingent, Navy," to civilian employees

PCriovviilsioasn. employees.

appointed by the Navy Department for duty in and serving at naval stations maintained in the island possessions during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve : Provided further, That hereafter, in chDairrgeecst ianncdluidneddireicnt fixing the cost of work under the various naval appropriations, the cost. direct and indirect charges incident thereto shall be included in such Money accounts to

cost: And providedfurther, That the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts show chance shall keep the money accounts of the Naval Establishment in such

manner as to show such charges and shall report the same annually for Partial payments the information of Congress. And provided further, That the Secre- allowed on contracts. tary of the Navy be, and he hereby is, authorized, in his discretion, to make partial payments from time to time during the progress of the work under existing contracts and all contracts hereafter made under the Navy Department for public purposes, but not in excess of ninety Insuranceto be proper centum of the value of work already done; and the contracts vided on hereafter made shall provide for such insurance as the Secretary of the Navy may deem sufficient, and for a lien in favor of the Government, which lien is hereby made paramount to all other liens, upon the articles or thing contracted for on account of all payments so made, provided that partial payments shall not be made under such contracts except where stipulated for and then only in accordance with contract provisions.
That officers on the active list of the line of the United States Navy engineersinpgerdfuotrymionng who, under authority of law, now perform engineering duty on shore sdihtoiroenaolnlnyu,mmbaedrse. adonly are hereby made additional to the numbers in the grades in which they are now serving, and shall be carried as additional to the

numbers of each grade to which they may hereafter be promoted: Provided, That said officers shall be entitled to all the benefits of
retirement under existing or future laws equally with other officers of like rank and service.

Proviso. Retirement.

Hereafter, if any officer of the United States Navy shall fail in his icOaflfiecxearmsifnalaltiinognphyfosr
physical examination for promotion and be found incapacitated for ptirroemdo. tion to be reservice by reason of physical disability contracted in the line of duty,

he shall be retired with the rank to which his seniority entitled him to

be promoted. CARE OF LEPERS, ISLAND OF GUAM: Naval station, island of Guam:
Maintenance and care of lepers, special patients, and for other pur-

Guam . Care of lepers, etc.

poses, fourteen thousand dollars.

1268

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

Bureau of Navigation.

BUREAU OF NAVIGATION.

Transportation.

Transportation : For travel allowance of enlisted men discharged on account of expiration of enlistment; transportation of enlisted men and apprentice seamen at home and abroad, with subsistence

and transfers en route, or cash in lieu thereof; transportation to their

homes, ifresidents of the United States, of enlisted men and apprentice seamen discharged on medical survey, with subsistence and transfers

en route, or cash in lieu thereof, transportation of sick or insane enlisted men and apprentice seamen to hospitals, with subsistence and

transfers en route, or cash in lieu thereof; apprehension and delivery of deserters and stragglers, and for railway guides and other expenses

Recruiting.

incident to transportation, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand four hundred dollars.
Recruiting: Expenses of recruiting for the naval service ; rent of

rendezvous and expenses of maintaining the same; advertising for and

obtaining men and apprentice seamen ; actual and necessary expenses

in lieu of mileage to officers on duty with traveling recruiting parties,

Proviso.

one hundred and thirty thousand dollars : Provided, That no part of

reCqeuritriefdic. ate of age this appropriation shall be expended in recruiting seamen, ordinary

seamen, or apprentice seamen, unless in case of minors a certificate of

birth or a verified written statement by the parents, or either of them, or in case of their death a verified written statement by the legal

guardian, be first furnished to the recruiting officer, showing applicant to be of age, required by naval regulations, which shall be presented Oathof applicant. with the application for enlistment; except in cases where such cer-

tificate is unobtainable, enlistment may be made when the recruiting

officer is convinced that oath of applicant as to age is credible; but miDniosrcsh.arge, etc., of when it is afterwards found upon evidence satisfactory to the Navy

Department that recruit has sworn falsely as to age, and is under

eighteen years of age at the time of enlistment, he shall, upon request

of either parent, be released from service in the Navy, upon payment

of full cost of first outfit, unless, in any given case, the Secretary, in

Contingent.

his discretion, shall relieve said recruit of such payment. Contingent: Ferriage, continuous-service certificates, discharges ,

good-conduct badges, and medals for men and boys; purchase of gymnastic apparatus; transportation of effects of deceased officers and enlisted men of the Navy; books for training apprentice seamen

and landsmen; maintenance of gunnery and other training classes ;
packing boxes and materials, and other contingent expenses and
emergencies arising under cognizance of the Bureau of Navigation,
unforeseen and impossible to classify, fifteen thousand dollars. Gunnery exercises.
Gunnery exercises : Prizes, trophies, and badges for excellence in gunnery exercises and target practice; for the establishment and main-
tenance of shooting galleries, target houses, targets, and ranges; for

hiring established ranges, and for transportation of civilian assistants
and equipment to and from ranges, one hundred and sixty-seven thousand dollars. Steaming exercises. Steaming exercises : Prizes, trophies, and badges for excellence in
steaming exercises to be awarded to the ships in commission for general efficiency and for economy in coal consumption, under such rules as the

Aviation ments.
Outfits.

Secretary of the Navy may formulate; and for the purpose of classify-
ing, compiling, and publishing the results of the competition, fifteen thousand dollars. experi- For experimental work in the development of aviation for naval
purposes, twenty-five thousand dollars.
OUTFITS ON FIRST ENLISTMENT: Outfits for all enlisted men and

apprentice seamen of the Navy on first enlistment, at not to exceed
sixty dollars each, nine hundred and thirty-one thousand eight hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1269

Maintenance of MAINTENANCE OF NAVAL AUXILIARIES : Pay, transportation, ship- auxiliaries.
ping, and subsistence of civilian officers and crews of naval auxiliaries

and all expenses connected with naval auxiliaries employed in emer

gencies, which can not be paid from other appropriations, seven hun-
dred and sixty thousand two hundred and six dollars. NAVAL TRAINING STATION, CALIFORNIA: Maintenance of naval YTrearinbiang stBatuioenns. a
training station, Yerba Buena Island, California, namely: Labor and Island, Cal.

material ; buildings and wharves ; general care, repairs, and improve-

ments of grounds, buildings, and wharves; wharfage, ferriage, and street-car fare ; purchase and maintenance of live stock, and attendance on same; wagons, carts, implements, and tools, and repairs to

same; fire engines and extinguishers; boats and gymnastic implements; models and other articles needed in instruction of apprentice

seamen; printing outfit and materials, and maintenance of same;

heating and lighting; stationery, books, and periodicals ; fresh water, and washing; packing boxes and materials; and all other contingent expenses ; maintenance of dispensary building; lectures and suitable

entertainments for apprentice seamen; in all, seventy thousand one

hundred and sixty-seven dollars and sixty-five cents.

Coasters Harbor Is-

NAVAL TRAINING STATION, RHODE ISLAND: Maintenance of naval land,R.I.

training station, Coasters Harbor Island, Rhode Island, namely:

Labor and material; buildings and wharves; dredging channels ;

extending sea wall ; repairs to causeway and sea wall ; general care,

repairs, and improvements of grounds, buildings, and wharves;

wharfage, ferriage, and street-car fare; purchase and maintenance of

live stock, and attendance on same; wagons, carts, implements, and

tools, and repairs to same ; fire engines and extinguishers; boats and gymnastic implements ; models and other articles needed in instruc-

tion of apprentice seamen; printing outfit and materials, and maintenance of same ; heating and lighting; stationery, books, and periodicals ; fresh water, and washing; packing boxes and materials; and all other contingent expenses ; lectures and suitable entertainments for apprentice seamen; in all, eighty-five thousand one hundred Proviso. and eighty-three dollars and twenty-eight cents : Provided, That the iceCsl.erical, etc., servsum to be paid out of this appropriation under the direction of the

Secretary of the Navy for clerical, drafting, inspection, and messenger

service for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and

twelve, shall not exceed five thousand seven hundred and one dollars

and sixty cents.

Great Lakes.

NAVAL TRAINING STATION, GREAT LAKES : Maintenance of naval

training station : Labor and material ; general care, repairs, and

improvements of grounds, buildings, and piers ; street-car fare ; purchase and maintenance of live stock, and attendance on same;

wagons, carts, implements, and tools, and repairs to same; fire appa-
ratus and extinguishers; boats and gymnastic implements ; models and other articles needed in instruction of apprentice seamen; print-

ing outfit and material, and maintenance of same; heating and light-

ing, and repairs to power-plant equipment, distributing mains,

tunnel, and conduits ; stationery, books, and periodicals ; washing;

packing boxes and materials ; lectures and suitable entertainments Proviso.

for apprentice seamen;

and

all other contingent

expenses :

Provided, Clerical, ices

etc.,

serv-

That the sum to be paid out of this appropriation under the direction .

of the Secretary of the Navy for clerical, drafting, inspection, and

messenger service for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed forty-four thousand five hundred and fifty-three dollars and thirty-six cents; in all, naval training station, Great Lakes, one hundred and six thousand five hundred

and ninety-nine dollars and thirty-six cents.

Naval War College,

NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, RHODE ISLAND: For maintenance of the R.I.

Naval War College on Coasters Harbor Island, and care of grounds

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11--82

1270

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

for same, twenty-two thousand four hundred and eighty dollars; services of a lecturer on international law, one thousand five hundred

dollars ; services of civilian lecturers, rendered at the War College, six hundred dollars ; care and preservation of the library, including

the purchase, binding, and repair of books of reference, and period-

Proviso.

Clerical, etc., serv- icals, one thousand five hundred dollars : Provided, That the sum

ices.

to be paid out of this appropriation under the direction of the Secre-

tary of the Navy for clerical, inspection, drafting, and messenger

service for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and twelve, shall not exceed eight thousand nine hundred and eighty

dollars ; in all, Naval War College, Rhode Island, twenty-six thou-

sand and eighty dollars.

Naval Home, Philadelphia, Pa.

NAVAL HOME, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA: One secretary, one

Pay.

thousand six hundred dollars; one foreman mechanic, one thousand

five hundred dollars ; one superintendent of grounds, at seven hun-

dred and twenty dollars ; one steward, at seven hundred and twenty

dollars ; one store laborer, at four hundred and eighty dollars ; one

matron, at four hundred and twenty dollars ; one beneficiaries' at-

tendant, at two hundred and forty dollars ; one chief cook, at four

hundred and eighty dollars ; one assistant cook, at three hundred and

sixty dollars ; one assistant cook, at two hundred and forty dollars ; one chief laundress, at two hundred and sixteen dollars ; five laun-

dresses, at one hundred and ninety-two dollars each; four scrubbers, at one hundred and ninety-two dollars each ; one head waitress, at

two hundred and sixteen dollars; eight waitresses, at one hundred and ninety-two dollars each ; one kitchen servant, at two hundred and

forty dollars; eight laborers, at two hundred and forty dollars each ;

one stable keeper and driver, at three hundred and sixty dollars ;

one master at arms, at four hundred and eighty dollars ; two house

corporals, at three hundred dollars each; one barber, at three hundred

and sixty dollars ; one carpenter, at eight hundred and forty-six dl-

lars ; one painter, at eight hundred and forty-six dollars ; one engi-

neer for elevator and machinery, seven hundred and twenty dollars ;

three laborers, at three hundred and sixty dollars each ; three laborers,

at three hundred dollars each ; total for employees, eighteen thousand

Miscellaneous.

eight hundred and eight dollars. Miscellaneous: Water rent and lighting, two thousand dollars ;

cemetery, burial expenses and headstones, one thousand dollars ; im-

provement of grounds, one thousand dollars ; repairs to buildings, repairs to and purchase of boilers, furnaces, and furniture, six thousand seven hundred and forty-eight dollars ; music in chapel, six hundred dollars ; transportation of indigent and destitute beneficiaries to the Naval Home, and of sick and insane beneficiaries, their attendants, and necessary subsistence for both, to and from other Government hospitals, three hundred dollars ; support of beneficiaries, forty-two thousand three hundred and seventy-three dollars ; total miscellaneous, fifty-four thousand and twenty-one dollars.

In all, for Naval Home, seventy-two thousand eight hundred and

twenty-nine dollars, which sum shall be paid out of the income from PErmopvliosoy.ing benef. the naval pension fund : Provided, That for the performance of such

ciaries.

additional services in and about the Naval Home as may be necessary

the Secretary of the Navy is authorized to employ, on the recommendation of the governor, beneficiaries in said home, whose compensation shall be fixed by the Secretary and paid from the appropriation for the support of the home.

Bureau ofOrdnance.

BUREAU OF ORDNANCE.

Ordnance and ord-

nance stores.

ORDNANCE AND ORDNANCE STORES: For procuring, producing,

preserving, and handling ordnance material; for the armament of

ships; for fuel, material, and labor to be used in the general work of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 239. 1911.

1271

the Ordnance Department; for furniture at naval magazines, torpedo

stations, and proving ground; for maintenance of the proving

ground and powder factory, and for target practice, and for pay of

chemists, clerical, drafting, inspection, and messenger service in. navy yards, naval stations, and naval magazines: Provided, That PCrhoermiiscoas.l, clerical, the sum to be paid out of this appropriation under the direction of etc. , service. the Secretary of the Navy for chemists, clerical, drafting, inspection,

watchmen, and messenger service in navy yards, naval stations, and

naval magazines for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen

hundred and twelve, shall not exceed four hundred and twenty-five

thousand dollars. In all, five million five hundred thousand dollars :

Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be expended for ilPesurceshtarsiectoefd.project-

the purchase of shells or projectiles except for shells or projectiles

purchased in accordance with the terms and conditions of proposals

submitted by the Secretary of the Navy to all the manufacturers of

shells and projectiles and upon bids received in accordance with the

terms and requirements of such proposals. Smokeless powder.
Purchase and manufacture of smokeless powder, one million one

hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Naval Gun Factory,

FOR NAVAL GUN FACTORY, WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Washington,DC.

New and improved machinery for existing shops, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

NEW BATTERIES FOR SHIPS OF THE NAVY: For new sights for five- New batteries.

inch, six-inch, and seven-inch guns and modifying their mounts, two

hundred and forty-five thousand dollars.

Fire-control instru-

For fire-control instruments for ships of the Navy, eighty thousand ments.

dollars.

Forfitting new breech mechanisms to three-inch, fifty-caliber, Mark anNiesmws.breech mechIII guns, one hundred thousand dollars.

Modifying breech mechanisms of three-inch, four-inch, five-inch, and six-inch guns, one hundred thousand dollars.

For replacing Mark VI six-inch guns with Mark VIII guns, and Modernizing guns.

repairing and modernizing the Mark VI guns for issue, two hundred thousand dollars.

For landingguns and appurtenances, two hundred thousand dollars. Landing guns, etc.

Ammunition for ships of the Navy : For procuring, producing, preserving, and handling ammunition for issue to ships, two million eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be expended for the purchase of shells or projectiles except for shells or projectiles purchased in accordance with the terms

Ammunition.
Proriso. Purchaseof projectles restricted.

and conditions of proposals submitted by the Secretary of the Navy to all of the manufacturers of shells and projectiles and upon bids received in accordance with the terms and requirements of such pro-

posals. SMALL ARMS AND MACHINE GUNS : For new rifles and machine guns maScmhailnelgaurnsm.s and
for ships, four hundred and twenty thousand dollars.

TORPEDOES AND APPLIANCES : For the purchase and manufacture of Torpedoes and appliances.
torpedoes and appliances, six hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

TORPEDO STATION, NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND: For labor and mate- NeTwoprorpte,dRo. 1.station, rial; general care of and repairs to grounds, buildings, and wharves ; boats, instruction, instruments, tools, experiments, and general tor-

pedo outfits, seventy thousand dollars.

EXPERIMENTS, BUREAU OF ORDNANCE: For experimental work in Experimentalwork.

the development of armor-piercing and other projectiles, fuses, pow-

ders and high explosives, in connection with problems of the attack of armor with direct and inclined fire at various ranges, including the

purchase of armor, powder, projectiles, and fuses for the above purposes, and of all necessary material and labor in connection therewith; and for other experimental work under the cognizance of the Bureau of Ordnance in connection with the development of ordnance material for the Navy, one hundred thousand dollars.

1272

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . CH. 239. 1911 .

Naval Militia.

ARMING AND EQUIPPING NAVAL MILITIA: For arms, accouterments,

ammunition, medical outfits, fuel, water for steaming purposes, and

clothing, and the printing or purchase of necessary books of instruc-

tion, expenses in connection with the organizing and training of the

Naval Militia of the various States, Territories, and the District of

Columbia, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Navy may prescribe, including salaries of the necessary clerical force and office

expenses in the Navy Department, at Washington, District of Colum-

Proviso. Employees

in bia, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars : Provided, That

iDzeepdartment author- immediately upon the approval of this Actthe necessary employees in

the Navy Department, at Washington, District of Columbia, may be

appointed, and their salaries and office expenses for the remainder of

the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, paid

f"6rom the unexpended balance of appropriations heretofore made for 'Arming and equipping Naval Militia.

Detroit, Mich. Loan of service pre-

That the Secretary of the Navy be, and he is hereby, authorized to

s"eDnettreodit."to U. S. S. loan, at his discretion, to the city of Detroit, Michigan, for exhibition in the Detroit Museum of Art, the silver service presented to the

Provisos. Return, etc.

United States ship Detroit by the city of Detroit: Provided, That

should another vessel be hereafter named after the city of Detroit the

No expense.

said silver service shall be returned by the city of Detroit to such vessel : And provided further, That no expense shall be caused the

United States Government by the delivery of the said service, the

same to be delivered at such time and under such conditions as may

Repairs.

be agreed upon between the Secretary of the Navy and A. H. Griffithi, the director of the Detroit Museum of Art.
REPAIRS, BUREAU OF ORDNANCE : For necessary repairs to ordnance buildings, magazines, wharves, machinery, and other items of

Contingent.

like character, thirty thousand dollars. CONTINGENT, BUREAU OF ORDNANCE : For miscellaneous items,

namely: Cartage, expenses of light and water at magazines and sta-

tions, tolls, ferriage, technical books, and incidental expenses attend-

ing inspection of ordnance material, nine thousand five hundred dollars.

Bureau of Equipment.

BUREAU OF EQUIPMENT.

selEsq. uipment of ves- EQUIPMENT OF VESSELS : For hemp, wire, iron, and other materials for the manufacture of cordage, anchors, cables, galleys, and chains ; specifications for purchase thereof shall be so prepared as shall give fair and free competition ; canvas for the manufacture of sails, awnings, hammocks, and other work; stationery for chaplains and for commanding and navigating officers of ships, equipment officers on shore and afloat, and for the use of courts-martial on board ship; the removal and transportation of ashes from ships of war; interior appliances and tools for equipment buildings in navy yards and naval stations ; supplies for seamen's quarters ; and for the purchase of all other articles of equipment at home and abroad, and for the payment of labor in equipping vessels and manufacture of equipment articles in the several navy yards ; all pilotage and towage of ships of war ; canal tolls, wharfage, dock and port charges, and other necessary incidental expenses of a similar nature; services and materials in repairing, correcting, adjusting, and testing compasses on shore and on board ship ; nautical and astronomical instruments and repairs to same; libraries for ships of war, professional books and papers, and drawings and engravings for signal books ; naval signals and apparatus, namely, signals, lights, lanterns, rockets, and running lights ; compass fittings, including binnacles, tripods, and other appendages of ships' compasses ; logs and other appliances for measuring the ship's way, and leads and other appliances for sounding; lanterns and lamps and their appendages for general use on board ship for illuminating

· SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

1273

purposes, and oil and candles used in connection therewith ; service

and supplies for coast signal service ; bunting and other materials

for making and repairing flags of all kinds; photographs, photographic instruments, and materials; musical instruments and music; install-

ing, maintaining, and repairing interior and exterior signal communi-

cations and all electrical appliances of whatsoever nature on board naval vessels, except range finders, battle order and range transmit-

ters and indicators, and motors and their controlling apparatus used

to operate the machinery belonging to other bureaus, three million

eight hundred and forty-three thousand three hundred dollars:

Provided, That the sum to be paid out of this appropriation, under the

Proviso. Clerical, etc., serv

direction of the Secretary of the Navy, for clerical, drafting, inspec- ices.

tion, and messenger service at the several navy yards, naval stations, and coaling stations for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed two hundred and nine thousand

and ninety-three dollars and sixty cents. COAL AND TRANSPORTATION: Coal and other fuel for steamers' and Coal, etc.

ships' use, and other equipment purposes, including expenses of transportation, storage, and handling the same, and for the general maintenance of naval coaling depots and coaling plants, water for all purposes on board naval vessels, including the expenses of transportation and storage of the same, four million dollars.
CONTINGENT, BUREAU OF EQUIPMENT: Packing boxes and mate-

Contingent.

rials, books, and models ; stationery; ferriage and emergencies arising

under cognizance of the Bureau of Equipment unforseen and impossi-

ble to classify, ten thousand dollars.

OCEAN AND LAKE SURVEYS :

Hydrographic surveys, including the Ocean and lakesurveys.

pay of the necessary hydrographic surveyors, cartographic draftsmen

and recorders, and for the purchase of nautical books, charts and

sailing directions, seventy-five thousand dollars.

DEPOTS FOR COAL: To enable the Secretary of the Navy to execute the provisions of section fifteen hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes, authorizing the Secretary of the Navy to establish, at such places as he may deem necessary, suitable depots for coal and other

Depots for coal.

fuel for the supply of steamships of war, five hundred thousand dollars.

DISTRIBUTION OF DUTIES : The duties assigned by law to the buDriesacuo.ntinuance of Bureau of Equipment shall be distributed among the other bureaus and offices of the Navy Department in such manner as the Secretary of the Navy shall consider expedient and proper during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and the Secretary of the Navy, with the approval of the President, is hereby authorized and directed to assign and transfer to said other bureaus and etTc.r,atnosoftehrerofbufruenaduss,. offices, respectively, all available funds heretofore and hereby appropriated for the Bureau of Equipment and such civil employees of the bureau as are authorized by law, and when such distribution of duties,

funds, and employees shall have been completed, the Bureau of Equipment shall be discontinued as hereinbefore provided : Provided, PUrsoevisoofs appropriaThat nothing herein shall be so construed as to authorize the expendi- tions restricted.

ture of any appropriation for purposes other than those specifically provided by the terms of the appropriations, or the submission of estimates for the Naval Establishment for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and thirteen, except in accordance with the order and

arrangement of the naval appropriation Act for the year nineteen hundred and eleven : Provided further, That the Secretary of the Navy tiRoenpoofrdtutoifes,diesttcr.ibu-

shall report to Congress at the beginning of its next ensuing session the

distribution of the duties of the Bureau of Equipment made by him under the authorization herein granted, with full statement in relation to said distribution and the performance of navy yard work therein involved.

1274

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

Bureau of Yards and Docks.

BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOCKS.

Maintenance.

MAINTENANCE OF YARDS AND DOCKS : For general maintenance of

yards and docks, namely: For books, maps, models, and drawings ;

purchase and repair of fire engines ; fire apparatus and plants ;

machinery; purchase and maintenance of horses and driving teams;

carts, timber wheels, and all vehicles, including motor-propelled

vehicles for freight-carrying purposes only for use in the navy yards;

tools and repairs of the same ; stationery ; furniture for Government

houses and offices in navy yards and naval stations ; coal and other

fuel ; candles, oil, and gas ; attendance on light and power plants ;

cleaning and clearing up yards and care of buildings, attendance on

fires, lights, fire engines, and fire apparatus and plants ; incidental

labor at navy yards; water tax, tolls, and ferriage ; pay of watchmen in navy yards ; awnings and packing boxes ; and for rent of wharf and

storehouse at Erie, Pennsylvania, for use of and accommodation of

United States steamer Wolverine, and for pay of employees on leave,

Prorisos.

one million five hundred and forty thousand dollars: Provided, That

Clerical, etc., serv-

ices.

the sum to be paid out of this appropriation under the direction of

the Secretary of the Navy for clerical, inspection, drafting, messenger,

and other classified work in the navy yards and naval stations for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall

MeHne'astC,hertci.s,ttioanYoAsusnog- not exceed four hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars : Provided
ciation buildings at further, That the Secretary of the Navy is authorized , in his discretion, yards.
to furnish hereafter, without charge, heat and light for the Young

Contingent.

Men's Christian Association buildings in navy yards and stations. CONTINGENT, BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOCKS : For contingent

Public works.

expenses that may arise at navy yards and stations, thirty thousand dollars.
PUBLIC WORKS, BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOCKS.

Portsmouth, N. H. Boston, Mass. New York, N. Y.

NAVY YARD, PORTSMOUTH, NEW HAMPSHIRE : Combined railway and highway bridge, with approach and appurtenances (cost not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars) , one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ; railroad rolling stock, additional, four thousand dollars ; for continuing the extension of the quay wall, one hundred thousand dollars ; in all, two hundred and twenty-nine thousand dollars.
NAVY YARD, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: Dredging, five thousand dollars ; toward one hundred and fifty ton floating crane (cost not to exceed three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars) , one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; improvements to water front, fifty thousand dollars ; improvements to yard buildings, ten thousand dollars ; paving, ten thousand dollars ; electrical system, extension, five thousand dollars ; one officer's quarters, twelve thousand dollars ; improvement of central power plant, twenty thousand dollars ; enlargement of Dry Dock Numbered Two, fifteen thousand dollars, to be immediately available ; in all, navy yard, Boston, two hundred and seventy-seven thousand dollars.
NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, NEW YORK: Dry Dock Numbered Four, to complete, five hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; improvement of water front, to continue , one hundred thousand dollars ; bollards and capstans for Dry Dock Numbered Four, forty-two thousand five hundred dollars ; crane track and extension of railroad track around Dry Dock Numbered Four, forty-three thousand dollars ; supply pipes around Dry Dock Numbered Four, fifteen thousand dollars; paving around Dry Dock Numbered Four, twenty-four thousand dollars: condenser system, forty-five thousand dollars ; distributing systems. extensions, fifty thousand dollars ; railroad equipment, extensions, five thousand dollars ; yard dispensary, extension, four

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1275

thousand five hundred dollars; in all, navy yard, New York, New York, eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand dollars.
NAVY YARD, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA : Rebuilding Pier Numbered Five, seventy-five thousand dollars ; reserve basin, extension, fifty thousand dollars; railroad track and equipment, five thousand dollars; sanitation system, reserve basin (to cost not to exceed

Philadelphia, Pa.

seventy-five thousand dollars), thirty thousand dollars; in all, navy yard, Philadelphia, one hundred and sixty thousand dollars.

NAVY YARD, WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Dredging, to continue, five thousand dollars ; new foundry (cost not to exceed two hundred thousand dollars), one hundred thousand dollars ; railroad tracks, extension, two thousand dollars; paving, to continue, two thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, one hundred and nine thousand five hundred dollars.

Washington, D. C.

NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO, CUBA: For emergency repair Guantanamo, Cuba. installation, three hundred and seventy-eight thousand five hundred dollars.

NAVY YARD, NORFOLK, VnINIA : Railroad tracks, extensions, five thousand dollars ; electric-light plant, extensions, twenty-five thousand dollars; repairs, buildings, Saint Helena, twenty-five thousand dollars; dredging, to continue, twenty thousand dollars; compressedair system, extensions, five thousand dollars; improvements to water front, one hundred thousand dollars ; paving and grading, ten thousand dollars; heating system, extension, fifteen thousand dollars ;

Norfolk, Va.

sewer system, extensions, six . thousand dollars ; water system, extension, five thousand dollars ; garbage crematory, ten thousand dollars ; fire-protection system, extensions, five thousand dollars;
renewals and additions to one hundred and twenty-ton floating derrick, five thousand dollars ; renewal of Richmonds Dock, twelve thousand
dollars; natatorium, Saint Helena, four thousand five hundred
dollars; purchase of land and widening of channel, eighty thousand Crane track, reapdollars; the sum of twenty thousand dollars appropriated by the Act propriation, of June_twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and ten, for crane track Ante, p. 616.
around Dry Dock Numbered Three is hereby reappropriated and made available for renewal of locomotive crane tracks ; in all, navy yard,

Norfolk, Virginia, three hundred and thirty-two thousand five hundred dollars.

NAVY YARD, CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA: Paving and grading, to continue, five thousand dollars ; railroad system, extensions and improvements, five thousand dollars ; toward permanently securing deep water at the entrance of the dry dock at the navy yard, sixty thousand dollars ; in all, seventy thousand dollars.
NAVAL STATION, KEY WEST, FLORIDA: Approach to Pier B, ten thousand dollars; repairs, coal shed and coal conveyers "A," twentythree thousand dollars; sewers, two thousand dollars ; water system, five thousand dollars ; machinery house, marine railway, two thousand dollars; repairs and foundations, Shed B, six thousand dollars ; to

Charleston, S.C. Key West, Fla.

restore dike and fill, nine thousand dollars; quay wall extension, fifty

thousand dollars; in all, one hundred and seven thousand dollars.

NAVY YARD, MARE ISLAND, CALIFORNIA: Improvement of hydrau- Mare Island, Cal. Improving hydraul-
lics, Mare Island straits, and so forth, in accordance with the report ic

submitted in House Document Numbered Eleven hundred and three,

Sixtieth Congress, second session, three hundred thousand dollars:

Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract

Proviso. Contracts author-

or contracts for such materials and work as may be necessary to ized.

complete the project, to be paid for as appropriations may, from

time to time, be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate five

hundred and seven thousand dollars ; grading and paving, fifteen

thousand dollars ; railway system, extensions, ten thousand dollars ;

water system, extensions, five thousand dollars ; electric plant. exten-

1276

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

sions, five thousand dollars ; pneumatic system, extensions, five

thousand dollars ; improvement of Quarters " I," five thousand dol-
lars; in all, three hundred and forty-five thousand dollars. Puget Sound, Wash.
NAVY YARD, PUGET SOUND, WASHINGTON: Dry dock, to complete, nine hundred thousand dollars; Pier Six, renewals and improvements,

twenty-five thousand dollars ; heating system, renewals and exten-

sions, ten thousand dollars ; water-closets for yard workmen, twelve

thousand dollars ; paving and walks to commence, ten thousand

dollars; garbage incinerator, six thousand dollars ; railroad equip-

ment and extensions, five thousand dollars ; fresh-water system ,

extensions, five thousand dollars ; fire-protection system, extensions,

ten thousand dollars ; dredging , five thousand dollars ; walk on Bur-

well Avenue, one thousand dollars; in all, navy yard, Puget Sound,

Washington, nine hundred and eighty-nine thousand dollars.

Pearl Harbor,

Hawaii.

NAVAL STATION, PEARL HARBOR, HAWAII: Dredging channel, to

complete, five hundred and forty-five thousand dollars ; dry dock, to

continue, eight hundred thousand dollars ; administration building,

fifty thousand dollars ; power plant, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; six officers' quarters, sixty-nine thousand dollars ; fresh-water

system, twenty-three thousand dollars ; foundry, seventy-five thou-

sand dollars ; forge shop, fifty thousand dollars ; combined ship fitters,

metal workers, and boiler shop, one hundred and twenty thousand

dollars ; pipe and plumber shop, thirty-five thousand dollars ; com-

bined wood-working shop, seventy thousand dollars ; water-front

development, one hundred thousand dollars ; naval hospital (total

cost not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars) , including sur-

geons' quarters (cost not to exceed twenty-one thousand dollars),

quarters for female nurses (cost not to exceed ten thousand dollars) ,

stables (cost not to exceed five thousand dollars) ; improvement of

grounds (cost not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars), seventy-five thousand dollars ; in . all, two million two hundred and sixty-two
thousand dollars.

Floating crane. Capacity increased.

The capacity of the one hundred and ten ton floating crane author-

Ante, p. 616.

ized by the Act of June twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and ten,

for use of Pearl Harbor, is hereby increased to one hundred and

fifty tons capacity, and the limit of cost is hereby increased to three

Guam.

hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. NAVAL STATION, ISLAND OF GUAM : Sewer system, fifteen thousand

dollars; extension of naval station roads, ten thousand dollars ; coal

shed, Piti, one thousand dollars ; wharf, Piti, three thousand dollars;

ice plant, three thousand dollars; in all, thirty-two thousand dollars.

Tutuila, Samoa.

NAVAL STATION, TUTUILA, SAMOA: For the purchase of five and

eleven-hundredths acres of land , more or less, at Steps Point, owned

by natives, on which are located range lights, three hundred dollars .

Naval Academy. New draw bridge.

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS , NAVAL ACADEMY: For a new draw

bridge across Dorsey Creek, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Rhode Island train- NAVAL TRAINING STATION, RHODE Island, BUILDINGS : Repairs to ing station.

Barracks "C," two thousand dollars ; renewals and repairs to admin-

istration building, twenty thousand dollars; additional water supply,

eighteen thousand dollars ; extension and renewal of water, steam, sewer, and CO, pipes and heating conduit, seven thousand five

hundred dollars ; additional roads, walks, and pavements in the

vicinity of Barracks "C," two thousand dollars; for moving boat-

house from its present location near detention barracks to a point.

on the Peninsula, and preparing site for same, three thousand five

hundred dollars ; in all, naval training station , Rhode Island, fifty-

three thousand dollars.

California training station .

NAVAL TRAINING STATION, CALIFORNIA, BUILDINGS : Garbage cre-

matory, one thousand five hundred dollars ; house for master of tugs,

two thousand six hundred dollars ; in all, four thousand one hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1277

NAVAL OBSERVATORY: Grounds and roads : Continuing grading, Naval Observatory.
extending roads and paths, clearing and improving grounds, five thousand dollars.
NAVAL PROVING GROUND, INDIAN HEAD, MARYLAND: For turn- ,inIgngdrioaunndH,eMadd. provtable, traverse table, and track, north battery, fourteen thousand five hundred dollars ; rebuilding river wharf, ten thousand dollars ; in all, naval proving ground, Indian Head, twenty-four thousand five hundred dollars.
Naval magazine, Fort Mifflin, Pennsylvania: Building for re-form- naFvoarltmaMgiafzfilinne,. Pa., ing plant, six thousand dollars ; installation of electric power, lighting, and telephone system, twelve thousand dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand dollars.
Naval magazine, New York Harbor (Iona Island) : Extension of nIavoanlamIasglaaznidn,eN.. Y., sea (river) wall, five thousand dollars; one shell house, twenty-five thousand dollars; in all, thirty thousand dollars.
Naval magazine, Fort Lafayette, New York: Construction of addi- FortLafayette, N.Y., tional floors, making two stories in fixed-ammunition house, shell navalmagazine.
house, and shell-filling house, and extension of iron balcony on same, five thousand three hundred dollars.
Naval magazine, Lake Denmark, New Jersey: One magazine, fif- nLavaaklemDaegnamzairnke,.N.J., teen thousand dollars.
Naval magazine, Saint Juliens Creek, Viriginia : One magazine VaSa.,innatvJaullimeangsaCzriencek., building, fifteen thousand dollars; one shell house, twenty thousand
dollars; acquiring fresh-water supply and additional fire protection, ten thousand dollars ; in all, forty-five thousand dollars.
Naval magazine, Mare Island, California: For one magazine attend- naMvaarlemaIgsalzainnde, . Cal.,
ant's quarters, three thousand dollars; one shell house, fifteen thousand dollars ; in all, eighteen thousand dollars.
For naval magazine, navy yard, Puget Sound, Washington: One naPvuaglemtaSgoauznidn,eW.ash. office building and laboratory, nine thousand dollars ; one magazine, fifteen thousand dollars ; one fixed ammunition storehouse, fifteen thousand dollars; in all, thirty-nine thousand dollars.
Naval torpedo station, Newport, Rhode Island: Garbage crematory, NeTwopropret,dRoI.station, three thousand dollars ; fire station for hook and ladder and hose reels, two thousand dollars; stable for horses, wagons, trucks, and yard locomotive trains, five thousand dollars; water-supply pipe across harbor, six thousand dollars; new power house, toward building (cost not to exceed sixty thousand dollars) and equipping (cost not to exceed one hundred and twenty thousand dollars), sixty thousand dollars; extension of fire mains, six thousand two hundred
dollars; paving, additional, five thousand dollars ; in all, eighty-seven thousand two hundred dollars.
Guantanamo, Cuba, Naval magazine, Guantanamo, Cuba: One magazine, fifteen thou- naval magazine. sand dollars; one shell house, fifteen thousand dollars ; one set quarters and office, eight thousand five hundred dollars; wharf, including clearing, grading, and equipment, twelve thousand five hundred dollars; in all, fifty-one thousand dollars. NAVAL MAGAZINE, OLONGAPO, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS : One shell house, naOvlalomnaggaapzion,e.P. I., one observation magazine, one stowage shed, one marine barracks, extensions to gun-cotton house, railway track and dock, one electric generator, and for lighting grounds and quarters, twenty thousand five hundred and seventy-seven dollars.
For the extension of existing quarters, buildings, mess hall, increas- Marine Corps Rifle ing rifle-range facilities, and the improvement of target butts, Marine Range,Winthrop, Md.
Corps Rifle Range, Winthrop, Maryland,. twenty thousand dollars : Proviso. Provided, That no part of said sum shall be expended for the construc- it for officers'
tion of quarters for marine officers the total cost of which, exclusive quarters. of cost of piling and including the heating and plumbing apparatus,
wiring, and fixtures, shall exceed in the case of quarters of a general officer the sum of fifteen thousand dollars ; of a colonel or an officer

1278

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

above the rank of captain, twelve thousand dollars ; and of an officer

of and below the rank of captain, nine thousand dollars.

Repairs and preservation.

REPAIRS AND PRESERVATION AT NAVY YARDS : For repairs and pres-

ervation at navy yards and stations, eight hundred thousand dollars .

Total public works, navy yards, naval stations, naval proving

grounds and magazines, Naval Academy, Naval Observatory, and

Marine Corps, seven million four hundred and thirty-one thousand

four hundred and seventy-seven dollars.

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.

BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.

Surgeons' neccssa.

ries.

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT : For surgeons' necessaries for vessels in

Civil establishment. Commission, navy yards, naval stations, Marine Corps, and for the civil establishment at the several naval hospitals, navy yards, naval

Contingent.

medical supply depots, naval medical school, Washington, and Naval Academy, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
CONTINGENT, BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY: For tolls and

ferriages ; care, transportation, and burial of the dead; purchase of

books and stationery, binding of medical records, unbound books,

and pamphlets; hygienic and sanitary investigation and illustration;

sanitary and hygienic instruction ; purchase and repairs of wagons, automobile ambulances, and harness ; purchase of and feed for horses and cows; trees, plants, garden tools and seeds ; incidental articles for the naval medical school and naval dispensary, Washington;

naval medical supply depots, sick quarters at Naval Academy and

marine barracks ; washing for medical department at naval medical

school and naval dispensary, Washington; naval medical supply

depots, sick quarters at Naval Academy and marine barracks, dispensaries at navy yards and naval stations, and ships ; and for minor

repairs on buildings and grounds of the United States Naval Medical School and naval medical supply depots ; for the care, maintenance,

and treatment of the insane of the Navy and Marine Corps on the
Pacific coast, and all other necessary contingent expenses ; in all,
seventy-nine thousand dollars. Transferring home remainsofofficers, etc. TRANSPORTATION OF REMAINS: To enable the Secretary of the Navy,
in his discretion, to cause to be transferred to their homes the remains

of officers and enlisted men of the Navy and Marine Corps who die or are killed in action ashore or afloat, and also to enable the Secretary

of the Navy, in his discretion, to cause to be transported to their

Proviso.

homes the remains of civilian employees who die outside of the con-

Applicationoffund. tinental limits of the United States, thirteen thousand dollars: Pro-

vided, That the sum herein appropriated shall be available for pay-

ment for transportation of the remains of officers and men who have died while on duty at any time since April twenty-first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight.

In all, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, four hundred and fortytwo thousand dollars.

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts.

BUREAU OF SUPPLIES AND ACCOUNTS.

Provisions, etc.

PROVISIONS, NAVY: For provisions and commuted rations for the
seamen and marines, which commuted rations may be paid to caterers of messes, in case of death or desertion, upon orders of the commanding officers, commuted rations for officers on sea duty (other than commissioned officers of the line, Medical and Pay Corps, chaplains, chief boatswains, chief gunners, chief machinists, and chief sailmakers) and midshipmen, and commuted rations stopped on account of sick in hospital and credited to the naval hospital fund ; subsistence of officers and men unavoidably detained or absent from vessels to

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1279

which attached under orders (during which subsistence rations to be stopped on board ship and no credit for commutation therefor to be

given) ; and for subsistence of female nurses, and Navy and Marine
Corps general courts-martial prisoners undergoing imprisonment with sentences of dishonorable discharge from the service at the expiration of such confinement : Provided, That the Secretary of the PCroomvmisuotsa.tion, prisNavy is authorized to commute rations for such general courts- oners. martial prisoners in such amounts as seem to him proper, which may

vary in accordance with the location of the naval prison, but which shall in no case exceed thirty cents per diem for each ration so com-

muted; labor in general storehouses and paymasters' offices in navy

yards, including naval stations maintained in island possessions under the control of the United States, and expenses in handling stores purchased and manufactured under the general account of advances ; and for the purchase of United States Army emergency rations, as required: Provided further, That the sum to be paid out of this etcC.h,esmeirvciacle,s. clerical appropriation, under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, for

chemists and for clerical, inspection, and messenger service in the

general storehouses and paymasters' oflices of the navy yards and naval stations for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed four hundred and forty-seven

thousand five hundred and forty-four dollars and eighty-eight cents.

In all, seven million four hundred and thirty thousand dollars. CONTINGENT, BUREAU OF SUPPLIES AND ACCOUNTS : For fuel, books and blanks, stationery, interior fittings for general storehouses and pay offices in navy yards ; coffee mills and repairs thereto ; expenses of naval clothing factory and machinery for same, tolls, ferriages,

Contingent.

yeoman's stores, safes, newspapers, and other incidental expenses, one hundred and fifty-nine thousand dollars.
FREIGHT, BUREAU OF SUPPLIES AND ACCOUNTS : All freight and aFnrdeibguhrte,aDuesp. artment express charges pertaining to the Navy Department and its bureaus,
except the transportation of coal for the Bureau of Equipment, five hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars.
Naval supply fund The permanent Naval Supply Fund created by the Act of March abolished. third, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, as modified by the Acts of VVooll..2279,, ppp. 7. 2337.0, G58. June tenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, and March third, eight- Vol . 30, p. 781. een hundred and ninety-seven, and further increased by the Acts Vol. 32, p. 17.
of January fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, and February
fourteenth, nineteen hundred and two, is hereby abolished , and of
the sum remaining on the books of the Treasury to the credit of the
said fund after the adjustment of all liabilities, the Secretary of the
Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to cause the sum of one million live hundred thousand dollars transferred to the credit of said
fund from the General Account of Advances to be returned to Gen-

eral Account of Advances, and the remainder to be covered into the Treasury; and hereafter the Naval Supply Account for the Naval coNuanvtatlo sguopvpelryn daics-Establishment, as created by the Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen position of stores. hundred and ten, under the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, shall nte, p. 792.
govern the charging, crediting, receipt, purchase, transfer, manufacture, repair, issue, and consumption of all stores for the Naval Estab-

lishment, excepting the materials named in that Act and such other
materials as the Secretary of the Navy may designate : Provided, That the amount expended under General Account of Advances for the purchase and manufacture of stores and materials for the Naval Establishment shall not exceed the amount available for such purposes.

Proviso. Limitation.

1280

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

Bureau of Construction and Repair.

BUREAU OF CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.

Construction and

repair ofvessels.

CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF VESSELS : For preservation and com-

pletion of vessels on the stocks and in ordinary ; purchase of mate

rials and stores of all kinds ; steam steerers, pneumatic steerers,

steam capstans, steam windlasses, and all other auxiliaries ; labor in

navy yards and on foreign stations ; purchase of machinery and tools

for use in shops ; carrying on work of experimental model tank ;

designing naval vessels ; construction and repair of yard craft , lighters,

and barges ; wear, tear, and repair of vessels afloat ; general care,

increase, and protection of the Navy in the line of construction and

repair; incidental expenses for vessels and navy yards, inspectors'

offices, such as photographing, books , professional magazines, plans,

Provisos. Wooden ships.

stationery, and instruments for drafting room, and for pay of classified force under the bureau , eight million four hundred and seventynine thousand one hundred and forty-four dollars : Provided, That no part of this sum shall be applied to the repair of any wooden ship when the estimated cost of such repairs, to be appraised by a compe

tent board of naval officers, shall exceed ten per centum of the esti-

Otherships.

mated cost, appraised in like manner, of a new ship of the same size and like material: Provided further, That no part of this sum shall

be applied to the repair of any other ship when the estimated cost of

such repairs, to be appraised by a competent board of naval officers,

shall exceed twenty per centum of the estimated cost, appraised in

forReeipganirwsatoefrss.hips in like manner, of a new ship of the same size and like material : Provided further, That nothing herein contained shall deprive the Secre-

tary of the Navy of the authority to order repairs of ships damaged

vesRseeplasi. rs to specified in foreign waters or on the high seas, so far as may be necessary to bring them home. And the Secretary of the Navy is hereby author-

ized to make expenditures from appropriate funds under the various

bureaus for repairs and changes on the vessels herein named, in an

amount not to exceed the sum specified for each vessel, respectively,

as follows : Georgia, five hundred thousand dollars ; Virginia, five

hundred thousand dollars ; Arethusa, one hundred and twenty thou-

sand dollars ; Iroquois, twenty-five thousand dollars ; Nero, forty-five

thousand dollars; Nanshan, fifty-five thousand dollars ; in all, one

million two hundred and forty-five thousand dollars, as per the letter

of the Acting Secretary of the Navy contained in House Document Numbered One thousand two hundred and twenty-one, Sixty-first

Congress, third session, concerning repairs to certain naval vessels :

iceCsl.erical, etc., serv- Provided further, That the sum to be paid out of this appropriation, under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, for clerical, drafting,

inspection, and messenger service in navy yards, naval stations, and

offices of superintending naval constructors, for the fiscal year ending

June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed eight

hundred and eight thousand and thirty-nine dollars. Construction plants. IMPROVEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION PLANTS : For repairs and improvePortsmouth, N. H. ment of plant at navy yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, fifteen
thousand dollars .

Boston, Mass.

For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard, Boston,

New York, N. Y. Philadelphia, Pa. Norfolk, Va. Charleston, S. C.

Massachusetts, twenty thousand dollars. For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard, New York,
New York, twenty thousand dollars.
For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard , Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, fifteen thousand dollars.
For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard, Norfolk, Virginia, twelve thousand dollars.
For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard, Charleston,

Mare Island, Cal.

South Carolina, twenty thousand dollars. For repairs and improvement of plant at navy yard, Mare Island,
California, fifteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . CH. 239. 1911 .

1281

BUREAU OF STEAM ENGINEERING.

Bureau of Steam Engineering.

STEAM MACHINERY: For completion, repairing, and preservation
of machinery and boilers of naval vessels, including cost ofnew boilers ; distilling, refrigerating, and auxiliary machinery; preservation of and small repairs to machinery and boilers in vessels in ordinary, receiving and training vessels ; repair and care of machinery of yard tugs and launches and for pay of classified force under the bureau, four million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
For purchase, handling, and preservation of all material and stores; purchase, fitting, repair, and preservation of machinery and tools in navy yards and stations, and running yard engines, two million dollars.
For incidental expenses for navy vessels, yards, the engineering
experiment station, such as photographing, books, stationery, technical books, periodicals, engineering indices, and instruments, six thousand dollars.

Steam machinery.
Materials, etc. Incidentals.

Provided, That the sum to be paid out of this appropriation " Steam PClreorviicsaol, etc., servmachinery," under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, for ices.
clerical, drafting, inspection, and messenger service in navy yards, naval stations, and offices of United States inspectors of machinery and of engineering material, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed four hundred thousand dollars.

In all, steam machinery , six million two hundred and fifty-six thousand dollars.

Engineering experiment station, United States Naval Academy, meEngtinseteartiionng,exNpaevrat-l Annapolis, Maryland- Experimental and research work: For original Academy.

investigation and extended experimentation of naval appliances ; and

for the purchase of such machines and auxiliaries considered applica-

ble for test and use in the naval service, and for maintenance of

buildings and grounds, forty thousand dollars.

Equipment of building : To complete the installation of steam, air, Equipment.

and water lines and electric circuit; for modification of trenches,

foundations for machinery; for purchase and installation of additional

boiler, forty-two thousand dollars.

Completion of boiler house, fifty thousand dollars.

Boiler house.

Six cottages for firemen, one thousand dollars each, six thousand meCont.tages for fire-

dollars.

In all, engineering experiment station, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland, one hundred and thirty-eight thousand dollars.
NAVAL ACADEMY.

Naval Academy.

PAY OF PROFESSORS AND OTHERS, NAVAL ACADEMY: One professor etPc.ay of professors, as head of the department of physics, three thousand six hundred dollars.
One professor of mathematics, one of mechanical drawing, one of English, one of French, and one of Spanish, at three thousand dollars `each.
Three professors, namely, one of English, one of French, and one of Spanish, at two thousand six hundred and forty dollars each.
Five instructors, at two thousand four hundred dollars each.
Four instructors, at two thousand one hundred and sixty dollars each .
Ten instructors, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each. One swordmaster, one thousand six hundred dollars; one assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars ; and two assistants, at one thousand dollars each ; two instructors in physical training, at one thousand five hundred dollars each, and one assistant instructor, in physical training, at one thousand dollars; and one instructor in

1282

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

gymnastics, one thousand two hundred dollars; one assistant librarian, two thousand one hundred and sixty dollars ; one cataloguer, one thousand two hundred dollars ; and two shelf assistants, at nine hundred dollars each; one secretary of the Naval Academy, two thousand four hundred dollars ; two clerks, one thousand five hundred dollars each ; four clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; four clerks , at one thousand dollars each; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; two writers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; one draftsman, one thousand two hundred dollars; one surveyor,
one thousand two hundred dollars; one dentist, two thousand five hundred and twenty dollars ; services of organist at chapel, three hundred dollars ; one captain of the watch, nine hundred and twentyfour dollars; one second captain of the watch, eight hundred and twenty-eight dollars ; twenty-two watchmen, at seven hundred and thirty-two dollars each. In all, pay of professors and others, Naval Academy, one hundred and twenty-two thousand eight hundred and seventy-six dollars. Department of ord- DEPARTMENT OF ORDNANCE AND GUNNERY : One mechanic, nine nance and gunnery. hundred and sixty dollars, and one at seven hundred and fifty dollars;

one armorer, six hundred and sixty dollars ; one chief gunner's mate,

five hundred and forty dollars; three quarter gunners, at four hundred

and eighty dollars each ; in all, four thousand three hundred and fifty

dollars.

Departmentsofelec- DEPARTMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND PHYSICS : TWO trical engineeringand

physics.

electrical machinists , at one thousand dollars each; one mechanic, seven

hundred and thirty dollars, and one at seven hundred and twenty

dollars ; in all, three thousand four hundred and fifty dollars.

Department of seamanship.

DEPARTMENT OF SEAMANSHIP : One coxswain, four hundred and

eighty dollars; three seamen, at four hundred and twenty dollars each ;

in all, one thousand seven hundred and forty dollars.
Department of ma- DEPARTMENT OF MARINE ENGINEERING AND NAVAL CONSTRUCTION : rnianvealencgoinnsetreurcitnigona.nd One master machinist, one thousand eight hundred dollars, and one

assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars ; one pattern maker, one

thousand two hundred dollars ; one boiler maker, one blacksmith,

three machinists, one molder, and one coppersmith, at one thousand

and eighty dollars each; one draftsman, two thousand dollars ;

machinists and other employees, six thousand seven hundred and

sixty-eight dollars; in all, twenty thousand five hundred and twenty-

eight dollars.

Commissary department.

COMMISSARY DEPARTMENT: One chief cook, one thousand two hun-

dred dollars ; four cooks, at six hundred dollars each, and eight assist-

ants, at three hundred dollars each ; one steward, one thousand two

hundred dollars, and one assistant, six hundred dollars ; one head

waiter, seven hundred and twenty dollars, and two assistants, at

four hundred and eighty dollars each ; two pantry men, at four

hundred and twenty dollars each ; one chief baker, one thousand two

hundred dollars ; one baker, six hundred dollars ; two assistants, at

five hundred and forty dollars ench, and one assistant, four hundred

and twenty dollars ; necessary waiters, at sixteen dollars per month

each, thirteen thousand four hundred and forty dollars ; one messen-

ger to the superintendent, six hundred dollars; twenty-five attend-

ants, at three hundred dollars each ; in all, thirty-five thousand one hundred and sixty dollars.

In all, civil establishment, one hundred and eighty-eight thousand one hundred and four dollars. Contingentexpenses. CURRENT AND MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES, NAVAL ACADEMY : Text

and reference books for use of instructors ; stationery, blank books

and forms, models, maps, and periodicals ; apparatus and materials for instruction in physical training and athletics ; expenses of lectures, including pay and expenses of lecturer; chemicals, philo-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1283

sophical apparatus and instruments, stores, machinery, tools, fittings,

apparatus, and materials for instruction purposes, thirty-eight thousand five hundred dollars.

Purchase, binding, and repair of books for the library (to be pur- Library.
chased in the open market on the written order of the superintendent), two thousand dollars.

Expenses of the Board of Visitors of the Naval Academy, being
mileage and five dollars per diem for each member for expenses during actual attendance at the academy, and for clerk hire, carriages, and other incidental and necessary expenses of the board, three thousand dollars.
For contingencies for the superintendent of the academy, to be expended in his discretion, two thousand dollars.

Board of Visitors. Superintendent.

In all, current and miscellaneous expenses, forty-five thousand five hundred dollars.
MAINTENANCE, NAVAL ACADEMY: For general maintenance at the Naval Academy, namely: For books, periodicals, maps, models, and drawings; purchase and repair of fire engines; fire apparatus and plants machinery; purchase and maintenance of all horses and vehicles for use at the academy; seeds and plants ; tools and repairs of the same ; stationery; furniture for Government buildings and offices at the academy; coal and other fuel ; candles, oil, and gas;

Maintenance.

attendance on light and power plants; cleaning and clearing up station and care of buildings ; attendance on fires, lights, fire engines,

fire apparatus, and plants, and telephone, telegraph, and clock systems ; incidental labor; advertising, water tax, postage, telephones,

telegrams, tolls, and ferriage; flags and awnings ; packing boxes; fuel for heating and lighting bandsmen's quarters; pay of inspectors and draftsmen; music, musical and astronomical instruments ; and for the pay of employees on leave, two hundred and ten thousand dollars.

Rent of buildings for the use of the academy and commutation of rent for bandsmen at eight dollars per month each, four thousand one hundred and sixteen dollars.
REPAIRS, NAVAL ACADEMY: Necessary repairs of public buildings,

Rent, etc. Repairs.

wharves, and walls inclosing the grounds of the Naval Academy, improvements, repairs, furniture, and fixtures, one hundred thousand dollars.

In all, maintenance, three hundred and fourteen thousand one hun-

dred and sixteen dollars.

Memorials.

MEMORIALS, NAVAL ACADEMY: To complete the installation, and Installation, etc., of

for the care, preservation, and display of memorials and other objects historic.

of historic interest and value at the Naval Academy, three thousand dollars.
That the Secretary of the Navy shall have estimates, plans, and

John Paul Jones. Plans, etc., for per

specifications prepared for the completion of the crypt of the chapel mofanreenmtairnesstoifn,gtpolabcee at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland , as a per- submitted.

manent resting place for the body of John Paul Jones, the cost of said

crypt and furnishing of same, including architect's fee and all other

expenses of every character connected therewith , not to exceed the

sum hereinafter appropriated, said plans and specifications to be

approved by the Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy .

and the Secretary of the Navy.

Amountforfurnish-

That the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof ing crypt, etc.

as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the

Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the completion and furnish-

ing of said crypt in accordance with said plans and specifications.

In all, Naval Academy, six hundred and twenty-five thousand seven

hundred and twenty dollars.

1284

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

Marine Corps.

MARINE CORPS.

Pay. Officers.
Retired list.

PAY, MARINE CORPS : For pay and allowances prescribed by law of officers on the active list, including clerks for assistant paymasters, five in all, nine hundred and twenty-two thousand seven hundred and seventy-three dollars.
For pay of officers prescribed by law, on the retired list : For two

Enlisted men.

major generals, seven brigadier generals, four colonels, seven lieutenant colonels, eight majors, ten captains, eleven first lieutenants, and four second lieutenants, and for officers who may be placed thereon during the year, including such increased pay as is now or may hereafter be provided for retired officers regularly assigned to active duty, one hundred and sixty-two thousand dollars.
Pay of enlisted men, active list : Pay of noncommissioned officers, musicians, and privates, as prescribed by law; and the number of enlisted men shall be exclusive of those undergoing imprisonment

with sentence of dishonorable discharge from the service at expiration of such confinement, and for the expenses of clerks of the United States Marine Corps traveling under orders, and including additional compensation for enlisted men of the Marine Corps regularly detailed as gun pointers, mess sergeants, cooks, messmen, signalmen,

or holding good-conduct medals, pins, or bars, including interests on

deposits by enlisted men, post exchange debts of deserters, under

such rules as the Secretary of the Navy may prescribe, and the

authorized travel allowance of discharged enlisted men and for prizes

for excellence in gunnery exercise and target practice, both afloat

and ashore, two million seven hundred and fifty-two thousand six

hundred and twenty-two dollars.

Retired enlisted

men.

For pay and allowances prescribed by law of enlisted men on the

retired list : For three sergeant majors, one drum major, thirty-four

gunnery sergeants, twenty-seven quartermaster sergeants, twenty-

five first sergeants, fifty-seven sergeants, eleven corporals, twenty

first-class musicians, two drummers, three trumpeters, and twenty-

seven privates, and for those who may be retired during the fiscal

year, one hundred and thirty-nine thousand and five dollars. Undrawn olothing.
Undrawn clothing: For payment to discharged soldiers for clothing
undrawn, one hundred and eighty-five thousand seven hundred and
ninety dollars.
Mileage to officers. Mileage: For mileage to officers traveling under orders without

troops, fifty-five thousand dollars.

Commutation of

quarters, officerswith- For commutation of quarters of officers on duty without troops

out troops.

where there are no public quarters, thirty-three thousand five hundred

dollars.

Civil force.

PAY OF CIVIL FORCE : In the office of the Major General Comman-

dant: One chief clerk, at two thousand dollars ; one clerk, at one thou-

sand four hundred dollars ; one messenger, at nine hundred and

seventy-one dollars and twenty-eight cents.

In the office of the paymaster: One chief clerk, at one thousand

eight hundred dollars; one clerk, at one thousand five hundred dollars ; one clerk, at one thousand two hundred dollars.

In the office of the adjutant and inspector : One chief clerk, at one thousand eight hundred dollars ; one clerk, at one thousand five hundred dollars.

In the office of the assistant adjutant and inspector: One clerk, at one thousand two hundred dollars.

In the office of the quartermaster: One chief clerk, at two thousand dollars; one clerk, at one thousand five hundred dollars ; two clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; one draftsman, at one thousand six hundred dollars.

In the office of the assistant quartermaster, Washington, District of Columbia. or San Francisco , California : Two clerks, at one thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1285

sand four hundred dollars each ; one clerk, for duty in the Philippine

Islands in the Quartermaster's Department, at one thousand four hundred dollars.

In the office of the assistant quartermaster, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: One clerk, at one thousand six hundred dollars ; one messenger, at eight hundred and forty dollars ; in the Quartermaster's

Department, for duty where their services are required, two clerks, at one thousand four hundred dollars each .
In all, for pay of civil force, thirty thousand three hundred and Disbursements.

eleven dollars and twenty-eight cents; and the money herein specifically appropriated for pay of the Marine Corps shall be disbursed
and accounted for in accordance with existing law as pay of the Marine Corps, and for that purpose shall constitute one fund.
In all, pay, Marine Corps, four million two hundred and eightyone thousand and one dollars and twenty-eight cents.
PROVISIONS, MARINE CORPS : For noncommissioned officers, musi-

Provisions.

cians, and privates serving ashore, for subsistence of enlisted men

when traveling on duty, or cash in lieu thereof; for commutation of rations to enlisted men regularly detailed as clerks and messengers ;

for payment of board and lodging of recruiting parties ; transportation of provisions, and the employment of necessary labor connected

therewith; and for ice for preservation of rations, eight hundred and

twenty thousand dollars ; and no law shall be construed to entitle

marines on shore duty to any rations, or commutation thereof, other

than such as now are or may hereafter be allowed to enlisted men in

the Army: Provided, however, That when it is impracticable or the ex-

Proviso. Navyration or com.

pense is found greater to supply marines serving on shore duty in the mutation.

island possessions and on foreign stations with the Army ration, such

marines may be allowed the Navy ration or commutation therefor. CLOTHING, MARINE CORPS: For noncommissioned officers, musi- Clothing.

cians, and privates authorized by law, seven hundred and twenty-five thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars.

FUEL, MARINE CORPS : For heating barracks and quarters, for Fuel. ranges and stoves for cooking, fuel for enlisted men, for sales to

officers, maintaining electric lights, one hundred and fifty-seven thousand dollars.

MILITARY STORES, MARINE CORPS : Pay of chief armorer, at four Militarystores.

dollars per day; one mechanic, at three dollars per day; two mechanics, at two dollars and fifty cents each per day; one chief electrician, at four dollars per day, and one assistant electrician, at three dollars

and fifty cents per day; per diem of enlisted men employed on constant labor for a period of not less than ten days ; for purchase of

military equipments, such as rifles, revolvers, cartridge boxes, bayonet scabbards, haversacks; blanket bags, knapsacks, canteens, musket slings, swords, drums, trumpets, flags, waist belts, waist plates, cartridge belts, sashes for officers of the day, spare parts for repairing

rifles, purchase and repair of tents, field cots, field ovens, and stoves ' for tents ; purchase and repair of instruments for bands, purchase of music and musical accessories ; purchase and marking of prizes for

excellence in gunnery and rifle practice ; good-conduct badges ; medals awarded to officers and enlisted men by the Government for conspicuous, gallant, and special service ; for incidental expenses of the School of Application ; for the construction, equipment, and maintenance of school, library, and amusement rooms and gymnasiums for enlisted men, and the purchase and repair of all articles of field sports for enlisted men; purchase and repair of signal equipment and stores; for the establishment and maintenance of targets and ranges, and

renting ranges, and for entrance fees in competitions ; for procuring, preserving, and handling ammunition and other necessary military supplies; in all, two hundred and ninety-seven thousand seven hundred and thirty-seven dollars.

88740°-VOL 26, PT 1-11-83

1286

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911.

SPpurirncgfhiaelsderifflersom For the purchase of Springfield rifles from the United States Army,

ArTmrayn.sportation and one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

recruiting.

TRANSPORTATION AND RECRUITING, MARINE CORPS : For trans-

portation of troops, including ferriage and transfers en route, or cash

in lieu thereof ; toilet kits for issue to recruits upon their first enlist-
ment and the expense of the recruiting service, two hundred and
eighty-two thousand dollars. Repairs of barracks.
FOR REPAIRS OF BARRACKS, MARINE CORPS : Repairs and improve-

ments to barracks and quarters at Portsmouth, New Hampshire ; Boston, Massachusetts ; Narragansett Station, Rhode Island; New

York, New York ; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Annapolis, Mary-

land; Headquarters and navy yard, District of Columbia; Norfolk, Virginia; Port Royal and Charleston, South Carolina; Pensacola, Florida ; New Orleans, Louisiana; Mare Island and San Francisco,

California ; Bremerton, Washington ; Sitka, Alaska; and Isthmus of

Panama; for the renting, leasing, improvement, and erection of buildings in Porto Rico, the Territory of Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, at Guam, the District of Columbia, and at such other places as the

public exigencies require ; and for per diem to enlisted men employed under the direction of the Quartermaster's Department on the repair of

Forage.

barracks, quarters, and the other public buildings,. one hundred and ten thousand dollars.
FORAGE, MARINE CORPS : For forage in kind and stabling for

horses of the Quartermaster's Department and the authorized num-

ber of officers' horses, twenty-four thousand two hundred dollars.

Commutation of quarters, officers with

COMMUTATION OF QUARTERS, MARINE CORPS: For commutation

troops, etc.

of quarters for officers serving with troops where there are no public

quarters belonging to the Government, and where there are not suffi-

cient quarters possessed by the United States to accommodate them ;

for commutation of quarters for enlisted men employed as clerks and

messengers in the offices of the commandant, adjutant, and inspector, paymaster and quartermaster, and the offices of the assistant adjutant

and inspectors, the assistant paymasters, and the assistant quartermasters, at twenty-one dollars each per month, and for enlisted men

Contingent.

employed as messengers in said offices, at ten dollars each per month ; eighty thousand five hundred dollars.
CONTINGENT, MARINE CORPS : For freight, tolls, cartage, adver-

tising, washing of bed sacks, mattress covers, pillowcases, towels, and sheets, funeral expenses of officers and marines, including the

transportation of bodies and their arms and wearing apparel from

the place of demise to the homes of the deceased in the United States; stationery and other paper, printing and binding; telegraphing, rent

of telephones; purchase and repair of typewriters ; apprehension of stragglers and deserters ; per diem of enlisted men employed on con-

stant labor for a period of not less than ten days; employment of

civilian labor ; repair of gas and water fixtures ; office and barracks furniture, camp and garrison equipage and implements ; mess utensils

for enlisted men, such as bowls, plates, spoons, knives and forks, tin cups, pans, pots, and so forth; packing boxes, wrapping paper, oil-

cloth, crash, rope, twine, quarantine fees, camphor and carbolized paper, carpenters' tools, tools for police purposes, iron safes ; purchase,

repair, and maintenance of such harness, wagons, motor wagons, carts, drays, and other vehicles as are required for the transportation

of troops and supplies and for official military and garrison purposes :

purchase of public horses and mules ; services of veterinary surgeons, and medicines for public animals, and the authorized number of

officers' horses ; purchase of mounts and horse equipment for all officers below the grade of major required to be mounted ; shoeing

for public animals and the authorized number of officers' horses ;

purchase and repair of hose, purchase and repair of fire extinguishers, purchase of fire hand grenades ; purchase and repair of carts, wheel-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239. 1911 .

1287

barrows, and lawn mowers; purchase and repair of cooking stoves, ranges, stoves, and furnaces where there are no grates; purchase of ice, towels, soap, rombs, and brushes for offices ; postage stamps for foreign postage; purchase of books, newspapers, and periodicals ; improving parade grounds ; repair of pumps and wharves; laying drain, water, and gas pipes ; water, introducing gas, and for gas, gas oil, and introduction and maintenance of electric lights ; straw for
bedding, mattresses, mattress covers, pillows, sheets; wire bunk bottoms for enlisted men at various posts ; furniture for Government
quarters and repair of same; packing and crating officers ' allowance of baggage on change of station; and for all emergencies and extraordinary expenses arising at home and abroad, but impossible to anticipate or classify, four hundred and forty-five thousand dollars.
Provided, That the accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby PMrootvoirsov.ehicles, etc. authorized and directed to remove any disallowances or suspensions Disallowances for
rein the accounts of Disbursing Assistant Quartermasters, United States pmuorvcehda.se, etc., Marine Corps, for the fiscal years of nineteen hundred and ten and nineteen hundred and eleven, for the purchase, maintenance, repair
and operation of motor and other vehicles, including the purchase and repair of harness, stable equipment and accessories of the Quarter-
master's Department, United States Marine Corps, when approved by the Secretary of the Navy as necessary for the public service.
Total under quartermaster, Marine Corps, three million ninety-two thousand three hundred and fifty-seven dollars.
Total Marine Corps, exclusive of public works , seven million three hundred and seventy-two thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight dollars and twenty-eight cents.

INCREASE OF THE NAVY.

Increase of the Navy.

That, for the purpose of further increasing the Naval Establish- Two first-class bat- tleships. ment of the United States, the President is hereby authorized to have constructed two first-class battleships, each carrying as heavy armor and as powerful armament as any vessel of its class, to have the highest practicable speed and the greatest practicable radius of action, and to cost, exclusive of armor and armament, not to exceed six million dollars each.
Two fleet colliers, of fourteen knots trial speed when carrying not Two fleet colliers.
less than twelve thousand five hundred tons of cargo and bunker coal, to cost not to exceed one million dollars each .

Eight torpedo-boat destroyers, to have the highest practicable deEsitrgohytertso. rpedo-boat speed, and to cost not to exceed eight hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars each.
Submarine torpedoFour submarine torpedo boats, in an amount not exceeding in the boats
aggregate two million dollars, and the sum of eight hundred thousand APprporviospor.iation. dollars is hereby appropriated for said purpose: Provided, That no Eight-hourworkday part of this appropriation shall be expended for the construction of restriction.
any boat by any person, firm or corporation which has not at the time
of the commencement and construction of said vessels established an

eight-hour workday for all employees, laborers and mechanics engaged, or to be engaged in the construction of the vessels named herein.
One submarine tender, to cost not to exceed five hundred thousand
dollars, and the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is hereby appropriated toward said purpose.
One gunboat, to cost, exclusive of armor and armament, not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars.

submarine tender. Appropriation.
Gunboat.

One river gunboat, to cost, exelusive of armor and armament, not Rivergunboat. to exceed two hundred and fifteen thousand dollars.

Two seagoing tugs, to cost not to exceed two hundred and fifteen Seagoing tugs. thousand dollars each.

1288

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 239 1911.

Construction and machinery.

CONSTRUCTION AND MACHINERY : On account of hulls and outfits of

vessels and steam machinery of vessels heretofore and herein author-

Provisos.

ized, thirteen million five hundred and thirty-one thousand seven hun-

Eight-hourworkday dred and eighty-five dollars and seventy-nine cents : Provided, That restriction on con- no part of this appropriation for the construction and machinery of

tracts for battleships. battleships shall be expended for construction of any battleships by

any person, firm or corporation which has not at the time of the com-

mencement and during the construction of said vessels established an

eight-hour workday for all employees, laborers and mechanics en-

gaged, or to be engaged in the construction of the vessels named

clPurdieodr. contracts ex- herein : Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to payments to

be made under contracts made prior to the approval of this Act:

onCoPlalciiefrictcooabset. built Provided, That the limit of cost of the collier authorized and directed

crLeiamseidt. of cost in- by the naval appropriation Act, approved May thirteenth, nineteen

Vol. 35, p. 158. hundred and eight, to be built in such Government yard on the

Ante, p. 629.

Pacific coast as the Secretary of the Navy shall direct, is hereby

increased from the modified million dollar limit of cost imposed by the Act of June twenty-fourth , nineteen hundred and ten, to one million

Torpedo boats.

two hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of indirect charges. INCREASE OF THE NAVY; TORPEDO BOATS : On account of submarine

torpedo boats and subsurface destroyers, heretofore authorized , eight

hundred and ninety thousand eight hundred and thirty-three dollars Provisos. Eight-hourworkday and eighty-eight cents : Provided, That no part of this appropriation restriction on con- shall be expended for the construction of any boat by any person,
tbroacttss, for torpedo firm or corporation which has not at the time of the commencement

and during the construction of said vessels established an eight-hour

workday for all employees, laborers, mechanics engaged in doing the

veNssoetls apprpelviicoaubslley otro- work for which this appropriation is made : Provided, That this limidered.
tation shall not apply to payments to be made upon vessels author-

Armor and arma- ized prior to the approval of this Act.

ment.

ARMOR AND ARMAMENT: Toward the armor and armament for

Provisos. Armor contracts.

vessels authorized, ten million five hundred and thirty-two thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight dollars : Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be expended for armor for vessels except upon contracts for such armor when awarded by the Secretary of the Navy

Purchase from trust to the lowest responsible bidders, having in view the best results and combinations, etc., most expeditious delivery : Provided further, That part of this forbidden.
appropriation shall be expended for the purchase of armor or arma-
ment from any persons, firms or corporations, that have entered into

any combination, agreement, conspiracy or understanding, the effect,

object or purpose of which is to deprive the Government of fair, open

and unrestricted competition in letting contracts for the furnishing

of any of said armor or armament.

" Florida," battleship .

The limit of cost, exclusive of armor and armament, of the battle-

naLviymyitardoifncrceoassteda. t ship Florida, authorized by the naval appropriation Act approved Vol. 35, p. 158. May thirteenth, nineteen hundred and eight, to be built in a Govern-

ment navy yard, is hereby increased from six million dollars to six

baLtitlmeisthiipnctroebaesebduifolrt million four hundred thousand dollars ; and the limit of cost, exclusive

at navy yard. Ante, p. 628.

of armor and armament, of the battleship authorized and directed by

the naval appropriation Act approved June twenty-fourth, nineteen

hundred and ten, to be constructed in one of the navy yards, is hereby increased to six million four hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of indirect charges.

Total increase of the Navy, twenty-six million five thousand five

hundred and forty-seven dollars and sixty-seven cents.

Use forDepartment,

clerical, etc., force, Provided, That no part of any sum hereby appropriated under "In-

forbidden.

crease of the Navy " shall be used for the payment of any clerical,

drafting, inspection, and messenger service, or for pay of any of the

other classified force, under the various bureaus of the Navy Department in Washington, District of Columbia.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 239, 240. 1911 .

1289

That no part of any sum appropriated by this Act shall be used for reSqpueicriefdicfoaru. thority any expense of the Navy Department at Washington unless specific

authority is given by law for such expenditure.

Provided, That no part of any sum herein appropriated shall be PNroovipsuor. chases of

expended for the purchase of structural steel, ship plates, armor, sctoemebl,ianramtoiorn, estci.n, frroemarmament or machinery from any persons, firms or corporations who straint oftrade.

have combined or conspired to monopolize the interstate or foreign

commerce or trade of the United States, or the commerce or trade

between the States and any Territory or the District of Columbia, in

any of the articles aforesaid, and no purchase of structural steel, ship

plates or machinery shall be made at a price in excess of a reason-

able profit above the actual cost of manufacture. But this limitation exNiosttinagpcpolnitcraabcltes. to

shall in no case apply to any existing contract.

San Francisco, Cal.,

By ajoint resolution of Congress the President of the United States celebration.

has been authorized and respectfully requested, by a proclamation coIunnvtirtiaetsiotnotopfaorrteiicginor in such manner as he may deem proper, to invite all foreign coun- pate in. tries and nations to attend and participate in an exposition at the Post, p. 1454. city and county of San Francisco, California, on or about the first day of January, nineteen hundred and fifteen, to celebrate the completion and opening of the Panama Canal, and also the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of the Pacific Ocean.

The President is further authorized and respectfully requested, in atAHsasmempbtloinngRoofadflse.ets extending his invitation to the foreign nations in pursuance of the aforesaid joint resolution of Congress, to invite their representatives and their fleets to assemble at Hampton Roads, Virginia, and from

thence come to the city of Washington, there to be formally welcomed by the President ; and, at the conclusion of the ceremonies

at Washington, the President is requested to proceed to Hampton Roads and there review the assembled fleets as they start on their voyage to the city of San Francisco.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 240.-An Act Making appropriations to supply deficiencies in appropriations forthe fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven and for prior years, and for other purposes.

March 4,1911. [H.R.82957.]
(Public, No. 480.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Deficiencies appro- . States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, priations.
and are hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to supply deficiencies in appropriations for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven and for prior years, and for other purposes, namely:

DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

Department of State.

For services in preparing the cipher code for the Department of PCriepphaerraCtioodne.of. State, authorized by the diplomatic and consular appropriation Act VR.olS..3,4s, epc..912670. , 1763approved February twenty-second, nineteen hundred and seven, 1765, pp. , 27,314. provided that the provisions of sections one hundred and seventy, Vol.18, p. 109. seventeen hundred and sixty-three, seventeen hundred and sixtyfour, and seventeen hundred and sixty-five of the Revised Statutes, and section three of the Act of June twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, shall not be applicable, the unexpended balance covered
into the Treasury of the five thousand dollars appropriated by the said Act of February twenty-second, nineteen hundred and seven, to wit, four thousand and forty-two dollars and thirty-five cents, is hereby made available.
The accounting officers of the Treasury are authorized and directed TCrheodmitasinMaocrcroiusnotns. to allow and credit in the accounts of Thomas Morrison, chief, Bureau of Accounts, and disbursing clerk, Department of State, the sum of

1290

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 240. 1911 .

three thousand nine hundred and ten dollars, disallowed against him
on the books of the department. International Seismological Associa- International Seismological Association : For defraying the necestioAnn.nual contribu- Sary expenses in fulfilling the obligations of the United States as a

tion .

member of the International Seismological Association, including the

annual contribution to the expenses of the association for the fiscal

year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, eight hundred
dollars. International Institute of Agriculture. For the payment of the expenses of delegates to the General Assem-

gatEexsp.enses of dele bly of the International Institute of Agriculture, to be held at Rome during the year nineteen hundred and eleven, ten thousand dollars,

or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be expended under the

direction and in the discretion of the Secretary of State and to be

immediately available.

Industrial Property

Union.

International Union for Protection of Industrial Property: For

inEgxpaetnsWeasshoifnmgteoent, additional amount required for defraying the expenses of the next

D.C.

meeting of the International Union for the Protection of Industrial

Property, to be held at the city of Washington, District of Columbia,

Saint John River in May, nineteen hundred and eleven, ten thousand dollars.

Commission.

Saint John River Commission : To complete the work of the joint

CVoomlp. l34e,tpi.n2g9w2.ork. commission, authorized in the diplomatic and consular Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, to investigate and report
upon the conditions and uses of the Saint John River, and to make

recommendations for the regulation of the use thereof by the citizens and subjects of the United States and Great Britain, according to

the provisions of treaties between the two countries, fifteen thousand

dollars.

Canadian boundary waters commission.

Of the appropriation of seventy-five thousand dollars carried in

Payment for rent. Ante, p. 766.

the sundry civil appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending June

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, concerning the boundary

waters between the United States and Canada, five thousand dollars

may be used for the rent of buildings in the District of Columbia from

Secretary of State. Additional pay.
Ante, p. 1186.

the date of the approval of said sundry civil Act. For additional compensation to the Secretary of State from March
fifth to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, inclusive, one thousand two hundred and eighty-eight dollars and eighty-nine cents.

Civil Service Commission.

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

Traveling expenses,

etc.

For necessary traveling expenses, including those of examiners

acting under the direction of the commission, and for expenses of

examinations and investigations held elsewhere than at Washington , one thousand five hundred dollars.

Treasury Department.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Secretary's office.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.

Transter of salary

appropriations.

Authority is granted to the Secretary of the Treasury to transfer

Ante, pp. 486, 490 from the appropriation " Salaries, office of Secretary of the Treasury,

Division of Loans and Currency," for the fiscal year nineteen hundred

and eleven, to the appropriation " Salaries, office of Comptroller of

the Currency (national currency, reimbursable)," for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, the sum of two thousand nine hundred

and sixty-three dollars and ninety-four cents, to meet the expenses -

of the force detailed therefrom to the National Bank- Note Redemp-

tion Division, office of Comptroller of the Currency, to assort national-

bank notes received for redemption as fully set forth in House Docu-

ment Numbered Twelve hundred and fifty-one of the present session.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

1291

Treasurer. The proper accounting officers of the Treasury Department are Credit for unavaila-
authorized and directed to examine and state an account of the items ble funds.
of unavailable funds, as set forth in House Document Numbered

Seven hundred and twenty-one, Sixty-first Congress, second session, and to credit the general account of the Treasurer of the United States Provisos. with the amount thereof: Provided, That the credit herein authorized Accounting.
shall be made in such manner as to debit the individual or depositary
chargeable therewith upon the books of the Treasury Department: Provided further, That upon the recovery or payment of any part of coDveeproesdi.tof funds resaid unavailable funds, the same shall be deposited in the Treasury in such manner as to debit the Treasurer of the United States in his

general account and to credit the individual or depositary charged therewith upon the books of the Treasury Department.
Any unexpended balance of the appropriation of twenty-five veCsotmigmaitsessitooncktsoainnd-
thousand dollars made by the deficiency appropriation Act of June rbooanddss. issued by railtwenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, for the commission on Ante, p. 774.
issuance of stocks and bonds by railroad corporations which shall
remain unexpended at the close of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven is reappropriated for the service of the fiscal year nineteen
hundred and twelve.

To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase the necessary riaBloso. kbinding matematerials for the use of the bookbinder authorized by law, for the

fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, two hundred and fifty dollars.

To reimburse the Treasurer of the United States for the loss which TRreeiamsbuurresr.ement. occurred in his office on January eleventh, nineteen hundred and

eleven, without negligence or fault on his part, one thousand dollars

and forty cents. COLLECTING INTERNAL REVENUE.

Internal revenue.

For salaries and expenses of forty revenue agents provided for by Agents, etc.
law, and fees and expenses of gaugers, salaries and expenses of storekeepers and storekeeper-gaugers, ninety thousand dollars.
For classifying, indexing, exhibiting, and properly caring for the Colarspsoirfaytiinog,nettacx.. rereturns of all corporations required by section thirty-eight of an Act turAnnste, p. 114. entitled "An Act to provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the United States, and for other purposes," approved

August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, including the employment in the District of Columbia of such clerical and other personal serv-
ices and for rent of such quarters as may be necessary, five thousand Proviso. dollars: Provided, That any and all such returns shall be open to Inspection inspection only upon the order of the President, under rules and tion.

restric-

regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury and approved by the President.

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the inEgx. pensesofcollect-
Secretary of the Treasury, is authorized, out of the appropriation Ante, p. 112.
made for the purpose of carrying into effect section thirty-eight of Additional force.
the tariff act of August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, for the fiscal

yearnineteen hundred and eleven, and out of the balance of the appropriations for that purpose for the fiscal years nineteen hundred and

ten and nineteen hundred and eleven, which balance is hereby reappropriated and made available for the fiscal year nineteen hundred

and twelve, to employ such additional force of internal-revenue agents, inspectors, deputy collectors, clerks , laborers, and other

assistants as he may deem proper and necessary to the prompt opera-
tion and enforcement of said section thirty-eight.
Refund of sums paid for documentary stamps : The time within stDaomcpusmoenntfoarerigyn which claims may be presented for refunding the sums paid for docu- bilTlis moef eexxctheanndgeed. for mentary stamps used on foreign bills of exchange drawn between presentingclaims for July first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and June thirtieth, refund of.
nineteen hundred and one, against the value of products or merchan-

1292

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

Vol. 35, p. 590

dise actually exported to foreign countries, specified in the Act entitled "An Act to provide for refunding stamp taxes paid under

the Act of June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, upon

foreign bills of exchange drawn between July first, eighteen hundred

and ninety-eight, and June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and one,

against the value of products or merchandise actually exported to

foreign countries and authorizing rebate of duties on anthracite coal imported into the United States from October sixth, nineteen hun-

dred and two, to January fifteenth, nineteen hundred and three, and

for other purposes," approved February first, nineteen hundred and

Refunding tions.

nine, be, and is hereby, extended to December first, nineteen hundred and eleven . collec-
Refunding internal-revenue collections : To enable the Secretary
of the Treasury to refund money covered into the Treasury as internal-

revenue collections under provisions of the Act approved May twenty-

Paper for stamps.

seventh, nineteen hundred and eight, forty thousand dollars. Paper for internal-revenue stamps : For paper for internal-revenue
stamps, including freight, ten thousand dollars.

Mints and assay ' offices.

MINTS AND ASSAY OFFICES.

New York.

Equipment of new Assay office at New York: Authority is hereby granted the Secre-

assay office.

tary of the Treasury to use of the unexpended balance to the credit

of the appropriation for parting and refining bullion the sum of

twenty-five thousand dollars for the purposes herein stated : To pro-

vide lighting fixtures, new melting furnaces, additional scales, bal-

ances, and other necessary apparatus, appliances, and equipment, including house telephone and time and watchman's clock systems

and office furniture; or so much thereof as may be necessary for the

proper equipment of the new assay office, the same to be immediately

available.

Parting and refining

bullion.

All laws and parts of laws, to the extent that they make a per-

atIinodneffoirn,irteepaepaplreodp.ri- manent indefinite appropriation for the expenses of parting and Vol. 19, pp. 157, 306. refining bullion, are repealed to take effect from and after June

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and the Secretary of the

Treasury shall, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and thirteen, and

annually thereafter, submit to Congress, in the regular Book of

Balance to be cov Estimates, detailed estimates for the expenses of this service.

ered into the Treas- The unexpended balance, after meeting all obligations, of the per-

ury .

manent indefinite appropriation for parting and refining bullion

remaining on the books of the Treasury two years after the close of

the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve shall be covered into the

Carson, Nev.

Treasury as a miscellaneous receipt.

Incidental expenses. MINT AT CARSON, NEVADA : For incidental and contingent expenses,

being for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and nine, five dollars and ninety-four cents.

For incidental and contingent expenses, being for the fiscal year

nineteen hundred and eight, seventeen dollars and thirty cents.

Deadwood, S. Dak.

Assayer, etc.

Assay office at Deadwood, South Dakota: Assayer in charge, addi-

tional compensation for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve,

two hundred and fifty dollars.

For incidental and contingent expenses, newmachinery, and so forth, one thousand dollars.

Independent Treasury.

INDEPENDENT TREASURY.

Chicago. Assistant
er's office.

treasur- Office of Assistant Treasurer at Chicago: For two clerks, at one thousand two hundred dollars each during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, two thousand four hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1293

For paper for interest, transfer, redemption, pension and other checks and drafts for the use of the Treasurer of the United States, assistant treasurers, pension agents, disbursing officers, and others, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, ten thousand dollars.

Paper for checks.

BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING. ·

Engraving and printing.

For labor and expenses of engraving and printing: For salaries of
all necessary employees, other than plate printers and plate printers' assistants, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, forty-five thousand dollars.
For wages of plate printers, at piece rates to be fixed by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, not to exceed the rates usually paid for such work, including the wages of printers' assistants, when employed, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, one hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Salaries. Wages.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Public buildings.

Treasury Building, Washington, District of Columbia, special D.TCr.easury building, repairs: To rearrange, improve, and modernize the interior of the teIrimoprr. oving, etc., inTreasury Building in Washington, District of Columbia, including approaches thereto, the mechanical and vault equipments of the same to fit the said building for the economical transaction of busi-
ness, exclusive of personal services, except for work done by contract, forty-eight thousand four hundred and sixty-eight dollars.
Paris, Illinois, post office : For additional amount required to com- Paris, III. plete the building, due to the abrogation of the contract for construction and the failure of the surety company on the contractor's

bond, fifteen thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary .
Dayton, Ohio, post office and courthouse : For commencement of Dayton, Ohio. building, under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Vaults, safes, and locks for public buildings: For vaults, safes, and ,loVcakusl. ts, safes, and locks for same, and repairs thereto, for all public buildings under the
control of the Treasury Department, including the lock-box equipment and repairs to same in completed and occupied buildings,
exclusive of personal services, except for work done by contract, twenty-five thousand dollars.

HEATING APPARATUS FOR PUBLIO BUILDINGS : To pay the balance due the Chisholm Company, under its contract dated February first, nineteen hundred and eight, for heating apparatus supplied for the post office and courthouse at Trenton, New Jersey, one thousand six hundred and seventy-six dollars and fifty-five cents.
To pay the balance due Kinnison Brothers, under their contract

THreeanttionng, aNp.pJa.ratus. Fort Worth, Tex.

dated January seventh, nineteen hundred and eight, for heating
apparatus supplied for the post office and courthouse at Fort Worth,
Texas, nine hundred and seventy-three dollars 1and thirty-seven cents.

Mechanical equipment for public buildings: Authority is hereby meMnetc.hanical granted the Secretary of the Treasury to pay the amounts, aggregating six hundred and seventy-three dollars and ninety-two cents, as set forth on page five of House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred and sixty-seven of the present session, for work done and articles supplied to various marine hospitals and quarantine stations during the fiscal year nineteen, hundred and ten, in the respective amounts stated, and to charge said bills to the appropriation for "Mechanical equipment for public buildings, nineteen hundred and ten."

equip-

1294

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

General expenses. Vol. 35, p. 537.
Maysville, Ky. Right of way.

General expenses of public buildings : To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to execute and carry into effect the provisions of section six of the Act of May thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight (Thirtyfifth Statutes, page five hundred and thirty-seven, part one), and under the limitations and provisions thereof, except that the limitation of said Act for superintendents of construction and other purposes is increased to two hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars, eightyfive thousand dollars.
To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay to the clerk of the county court of Mason County, Kentucky, the cost of taking an acknowledgment, together with certificate and seal, incident to

securing the right of way or easement through private property, in connection with the construction of a sewer for the public building

at Maysville, Kentucky, one dollar and fifty cents, the same to be

charged to the appropriation for " General expenses of public build-

ings, nineteen hundred and ten." Portland, Me. Sprinkling streets. Authority is hereby granted the Secretary of the Treasury to pay
from the appropriation for " General expenses of public buildings,

nineteen hundred and ten," the sum of fifteen dollars and sixty-five

cents to the city of Portland, Maine, for sprinkling streets around the

Webster, Mass. Advertising.

site acquired for the new courthouse building in that city. Authority is hereby granted the Secretary of the Treasury to pay
from the appropriation for "General expenses of public buildings,

nineteen hundred and ten, " the sum of one dollar and fifty cents to

The Webster Press (Incorporated), of Webster, Massachusetts, for

publishing advertisement, in July, nineteen hundred and six, covering

proposals for sale of land as a public building site in said city.

New London, Conn.

Advertising.

Authority is hereby granted the Secretary of the Treasury to pay

from the appropriation for " General expenses of public buildings,

nineteen hundred and eleven, " the sum of eight dollars and thirteen cents to The New London Daily Globe, and the sum of seven dollars

and fifty cents to Telegraph Publishing Company (publishers, The

New London Telegraph), for advertising for bids for alterations,

Furniture, etc.

painting, and so forth, at the United States customhouse, New London, Connecticut.
Furniture and repairs of same for public buildings: To enable the

Secretary of the Treasury to furnish the equipment for forty-five

new buildings and to supply and complete the furniture equipment

of the new buildings at Saint Louis, Houston, Detroit, and Columbus,

which it is necessary should be furnished before July first, one hundred

and eighty thousand dollars.

Fuel, lights, and water.

Fuel, lights, and water for public buildings : Authority is hereby

Saginaw, Mich. granted the Secretary of the Treasury to pay from the appropriation

for "fuel, lights, and water for public buildings, nineteen hundred and

nine, " the sum of ten dollars and seventy-seven cents, to the Man-

hattan Electrical Supply Company, of New York City, for five

electric-light portables, complete, including shades and wiring, fur-

nished January sixth, nineteen hundred and five, for use in the United

States post office at Saginaw, Michigan.

Customs service.

CUSTOMS SERVICE .

Collecting revenue. R.S., sec. 3687, p. 724. To defray the expenses of collecting the revenue from customs,
being additional to the permanent appropriation for this purpose, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, five hundred thousand dollars.
To defray the expenses of collecting the revenue from customs, being additional to the permanent appropriation for this purpose, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, sixty-eight thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1295

To refund to the Albert Champion Company, of Boston, Massa- CoAmlpbaenryt. Champion chusetts, duties erroneously collected from them, as reported by the

collector of customs at that port, and covered into the Treasury,

two thousand two hundred and seventy-two dollars and forty-eight

cents.

PUBLIC HEALTH AND MARINE-HOSPITAL SERVICE.

Public Health and iMcaer.ine-Hospital Serv-

Expenses of Public Health and Marine- Hospital Service, as follows:

For pay, allowances, and commutation of quarters for commis- Pay, etc. sioned medical officers and pharmacists, thirty-nine thousand dollars;
For all other employees, twenty-three thousand dollars ; For maintenance of marine hospitals, including subsistence, and for Maintenance of hosall other necessary miscellaneous expenses which are not included under special heads, thirteen thousand dollars; For medical examinations, care of seamen, care and treatment of tiMonesd,iectacl. examina. all other persons entitled to relief, and miscellaneous expenses at other than marine hospitals, which are not included under special heads, twenty-nine thousand dollars ; In all, one hundred and four thousand dollars.

MISCELLANEOUS TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Miscellaneous.

Distinctive paper for United States securities: For the payment of secDuirsittiinecst.ive paper, laundry bills for washing sheets, pillowcases, and towels used by the Expenses at mill. watchmen and other employees at the Government mill at Pittsfield, Massachusetts, from September first, nineteen hundred and nine, tó June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, at the rate of three dollars per month, thirty dollars.

To reimburse the State board of regents of the University of Idaho for the premium paid on an indemnity bond on account of the loss of a United States draft for twenty-five thousand dollars in transit between the United States Treasury and the State treasury of Idaho, five hundred dollars.

IRdeaihmobuUnrisveemresnit.y.

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to adjust ORreepgonr.t, etc., on and report to Congress , through the office of the Auditor for the War claims for volunteers, Department, all unpaid claims for services of the volunteers who Cayuse war.

rendered service in the war with the Indians in Oregon in eighteen

hundred and forty-seven and eighteen hundred and forty- eight, known as the Cayuse war, at the same rates as were paid to those whose claims have already been settled, and when said claims shall have been settled, the amount found to be due in each individual case shall be certified up to the Congress.
Refund of fine to Harald Berg : To refund to Captain Harald Berg, master of the Norwegian steamship Times, a fine imposed on him for violation of section twenty-eight hundred and seventy-two, Revised Statutes, which fine was remitted by the Secretary of the

Harald Berg. Refund offine.
R. S. sec. 2872, p. 55å

Treasury, pursuant to section fifty-two hundred and ninety-two, R.S.sec.5292, p.1027.
Revised Statutes, but erroneously covered into the Treasury, four hundred dollars.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and maClna.udius M. Seadirected to allow and credit in the accounts of Captain Claudius M. Credit in accounts.

Seaman, Coast Artillery Corps, the sum of two hundred and fifty

dollars, disallowed against him on the books of the Treasury.

William C. Langfitt.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and Credit in accounts.

directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Lieutenant Colonel

William C. Langfitt, Corps of Engineers, the sum of one hundred and
eighty-two dollars, disallowed against him on the books of the Treasury.

1296

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 240. 1911 .

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Lieutenant Colonel

William C. Langfitt, Corps of Engineers, the sum of one hundred

dollars, disallowed against him on the books of the Treasury. Charles F. Atwood Relief of the heirs of Charles F. Atwood and Ziba H. Nickerson :

6a0n0d. Ziba H. Nicker- To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out the provisions of

Post, p. 1906.

an "Act for the relief of the heirs of Charles F. Atwood and Ziba H.

Nickerson," approved February thirteenth, nineteen hundred and

Cooper Walker. Post, p. 1882.

eleven, two thousand eight hundred and forty dollars. Relief of Cooper Walker: To enable the Secretary of the Treasury
to carry out the provisions of an "Act for the relief of Cooper Walker,"

approved January nineteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, one hun-

E. C. Young. Post, p. 1919.

dred and ninety dollars. Relief of E. C. Young: To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to
carry out the provisions of an "Act for the relief of E. C. Young," approved February sixteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, four hun-

Phoebe Clark. Post, p. 1930.

dred and forty-nine dollars and thirty cents. Relief of Phoebe Clark: To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to

carry out the provisions of an "Act for the relief of Phoebe Clark," approved February sixteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, one hun-

dred and sixteen dollars .

New Hampshire.

Payment for land, To pay to the State of New Hampshire for land and fort in Ports-

etc.

mouth Harbor ceded to the United States, twelve thousand dollars.

District of Columbia.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA .

Takoma Park, li- TAKOMA PARK BRANCH PUBLIC LIBRARY: For maintenance of the brary.

Maintenance. Ante, p. 290.

Takoma Park Public Library, employment of librarian and assist-

ants, substitutes, and other special and temporary services, extra

services for Sundays and holidays, purchase of books, periodicals,

binding, fuel, and other contingent expenses, the rates of compensa-

tion of all employees to be determined by the board of library trustees,

fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, two thousand five hundred dollars.

Books.

For purchase of books, to be immediately available, two thousand

dollars.

Contingentexpenses. CONTINGENT EXPENSES : For postage for strictly official mail mat-

Postage.

ter, two thousand dollars.

Advertising tax arrearages.

For additional amount required for advertising taxes in arrears,

Tags for horse- five hundred and fifty dollars.

drawn vehicles.

For the purchase of metal identification number tags for horse-

drawn vehicles for business purposes in the District of Columbia, five

hundred dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, five hundred
dollars. Judicial expenses.
JUDICIAL EXPENSES : For additional amount required for objects

set forth for judicial expenses , fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight,

Coroner's office .

nine dollars and fifty cents. CORONER'S OFFICE: For additional amount required to meet the

Advertising.

object set forth in the appropriation for contingent expenses of the coroner's office, three thousand five hundred dollars.
GENERAL ADVERTISING : For additional amount required for general

advertising authorized and required by law, and for tax and school

notices and notices of changes in regulations-

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, five hundred and

fifty-nine dollars and twenty-six cents.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, twenty-two dollars

and fifty cents.

Assessment and permit work.

IMPROVEMENTS AND REPAIRS : For additional amount required to

meet the object set forth in the appropriation for assessment and

permit work, fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, one dollar and

seventy-five cents.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1297

The work authorized by the appropriation of fifteen thousand dol- GUrsaedoifnhgired labor. lars contained in the District appropriation Act approved May eight- Ante, p. 385.
eenth, nineteen hundred and ten, for grading streets, alleys, and

roads, may, in the discretion of the commissioners, be performed by hired labor.

The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby author- BrAotheWri. lson and

ized and directed to pay to A. Wilson and Brother the sum of eleven Fuel.

dollars and eighty-three cents for fuel furnished the District of Columbia without the usual certificate of inspection required by law,
September, nineteen hundred and ten. EXTENSION OF STREETS AND AVENUES : For additional amounts Extension ofstreets, etc.

required for payment of costs and expenses of condemnation pro-

ceedings, taken pursuant to the following public Acts, to be paid

wholly from the revenues of the District of Columbia: An Act to extend S Street, in the District of Columbia, and for other
purposes, three dollars and five cents. An Act authorizing the extension of T Street (formerly W Street)

8 Street. V ,p.1351.

T

N.

StreetNW

northwest, one dollar and twenty-five cents.

Anacostia River.

ROAD ALONG THE SOUTH BANK OF ANACOSTIA RIVER: For addi- Road alongbankof.

tional amount required to meet the costs and expenses of condemna- Ante, p. 353.

tion proceedings; two hundred and ninety dollars and seventy-seven

cents.

PURCHASE

OF LANDS,

GOVERNMENT RESERVATIONS :

For

additional

Lands for tions, etc.

reserva-

amount

required

to

meet the

costs

and

expenses

of condemnation Condemnation penses.

ex-

proceedings, taken pursuant to section two of the Act of June thir-

tieth, nineteen hundred and six, payable wholly from the revenues of

the United States, forty cents.

Public schools.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS : For additional amount required for pay of jan- ScWhoeoslt. ern High

itors, Western High School, three hundred and twenty dollars.

For additional amount required to meet the object set forth in temporary rooms,

appropriation to provide for increased enrollment resulting from the operation of the compulsory-education law, one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: Salaries: For additional amount required to meet payment of salaries, fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, eleven dollars and fifty-seven cents.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: For additional amount required to meet
object set forth in the appropriation for disinfecting service, three thousand dollars.
For additional amount required for contingent expenses incident to the enforcement of an act to regulate the sale of milk in the District of Columbia, approved March second, eighteen hundred and ninetyfive, and for other purposes, two hundred dollars.
JUVENILE COURT: For services rendered by acting judge during absence of judge of said court, as authorized by section three of the Act of March nineteenth, nineteen hundred and six:
Fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, two hundred and five dollars.

Fire department. Salaries.
Health department. Disinfectingservice.
Milk inspection. Vol. 28, p. 709.
Juvenile court. Actingjudge. Vol. 34, p. 73.

Fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, eighty-five dollars. For additional amount required for incidental expenses, fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, nine dollars and two cents. POLICE COURT: For additional amount required for witness fees, fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, seventy-five cents. WRITS OF LUNACY : For additional amount required to meet object
set forth in the appropriation for writs of lunacyFiscal year nineteen hundred and three, one dollar and twenty-
five cents.

Police court. witness fees.
Lunacy writs.

Fiscal year nineteen hundred and five, two dollars and fifty cents. WAabsahnidnognteodnfAasmyiliuems. WASHINGTON ASYLUM: Support of abandoned wives and children : Vol. 34, p. 87. For additional amount required for payment to beneficiaries under

1298

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

Act of May twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six, one thousand

five hundred dollars.

Columbia Polytech-

nic Institute.

COLUMBIA POLYTECHNIO INSTITUTE : Forthe instruction and employ-

thIenbsltirnucdt. ion, etc., of ment of the blind of the Columbia Polytechnic Institute who are actual residents of the District of Columbia, and for the purchase

and repair of machinery and tools which may be needed to equip a

workshop for the blind of said District, three thousand dollars, to be

expended under the direction of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

inHformm.e for Aged and HOME FOR THE AGED AND INFIRM : For additional amount required

for provisions, fuel, forage, harness and vehicles and repairs to same,

Water supply. Vol. 35, p. 303.

ice, shoes, clothing, dry goods, tailoring, drugs and medical supplies, furniture and bedding, kitchen utensils, and other necessary items, two thousand dollars.
The unexpended balance of the appropriation of six thousand five hundred dollars made by the Act of May twenty-sixth, nineteen

hundred and eight, for duplicating water supply at the Home for the

Aged and Infirm is hereby reappropriated and continued available

National Training until and including June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

School for Boys.

NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR BOYS : For care and maintenance

of boys committed to the National Training School for Boys by the

courts of the District of Columbia additional to the amount payable under a contract made by the Board of Charities with the authorities

of said National Training School for Boys, this sum being intended to

pay said school additional not exceeding one dollar per week for each boy so committed and maintained during any part of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, ten thousand dollars, or so much thereof

as may be necessary.

8. W. Curriden. Credit in accounts.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are directed to allow and

credit in the accounts of S. W. Curriden, treasurer, the sum of one

hundred and fifty dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to

cover expenses for periodicals for the use of the National Training

School for Boys during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven. Eastern Dispensary. EASTERN DISPENSARY: For additional amount required for emer-

gency care and treatment of and free dispensary to indigent patients,

under a contract or agreement to be made with the Eastern Dispen-

sary by the Board of Charities, two thousand two hundred dollars.

Tuberculosis Hos- TUBERCULOSIS HOSPITAL: For additional amount required for pital.

Mortuary.

erection of mortuary, two thousand dollars : Provided, That the sum

BParolvainscoe. available. hereby appropriated, together with the appropriation made for said

Ante, p. 408.

purpose by the Act of May eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, shall

continue available for expenditures until and including June thirtieth,

nineteen hundred and twelve.

Industrial Home School for Colored

INDUSTRIAL HOME SCHOOL FOR COLORED CHILDREN : For addi-

Children.

tional amount required for maintenance, including purchase and care

of horses, wagons, and harness, one thousand five hundred dollars.

Industrial Home School.

INDUSTRIAL HOME SCHOOL: For additional amount required for

maintenance, including purchase and care of horses, wagons, and

harness, one thousand dollars.

Board of Children's BOARD OF CHILDREN'S GUARDIANS : That authority is hereby Guardians.
Care of children. granted to pay, in addition to the sum of one thousand five hundred

dollars heretofore authorized, a further sum not to exceed four thou-

sand dollars to institutions adjudged to be under sectarian control, fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven.

Naval militia. Pay.

MILITIA: For pay of officers and enlisted men'in the Naval Battalion for annual cruise of nineteen hundred and ten, three thousand six

Storehouse.

hundred and ten dollars and twelve cents. For furniture, fire hose and connections, fire extinguishers, and all

material necessary for the equipment and care of the storehouse, Naval Battalion, District of Columbia Militia, one thousand and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1299

seventy dollars: Provided, That so much as may be necessary of the
sum heretofore appropriated for the construction of the Naval Battalion storehouse is hereby made available for the purchase and installation of locker equipment and for repair of sea wall and adjacent dock.

PRreopvaisros., etc.

REFUNDING TAXES: The Commissioners of the District of Columbia ,feeRse,feutnc.ding permit are hereby authorized to pay to H. C. Green the sum of three dollars . C. Green.
for amount erroneously paid for certain permits.
The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby author- moMnasr.garet R. Samized and directed to pay to Margaret R. Sammons the sum of seven
dollars and thirty-one cents, account of erroneously paid taxes. Judgments.
JUDGMENTS: For payment of the judgments, including costs,
against the district of Columbia, set forth in House Documents Numbered Thirteen hundred and sixty-seven and Thirteen hundred

and seventy-eight of this session, five thousand eight hundred and thirty dollars and ninety-five cents, together with a further sum sufficient to pay the interest, at not exceeding four per centum, on

said judgments, as provided by law, from the date the same became due until the date of payment.

SUPPORT OF PRISONERS : For expenses for maintenance of the jail Supportofprisoners.

of the District of Columbia, including pay of guards and all other

necessary personal services, and for support of prisoners therein, to

be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, five thou-
sand dollars. Supremecourt, D.C.
MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES, SUPREME COURT: For payment of such Miscellaneous ex-

miscellaneous expenses as may be authorized by the Attorney Gen- penses. eral for the supreme court of the District of Columbia and its officers, including the furnishing and collecting of evidence where the United

States is or may be a party in interest, including also such expenses

as may be authorized by the Attorney General for the court of appeals, District of Columbia, for fiscal years as follows:

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, four dollars and

' eighty-nine cents.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, twenty-two dol-

lars and thirty-two cents.

Part from District

Except as otherwise provided, one-half of the foregoing amounts revenues.

to meet deficiencies in the appropriations on account of the District

of Columbia shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Colum-

bia and one-half from any money in the Treasury not otherwise

appropriated. The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are authorized here- tiMounnsi. cipal regula-

after to issue, in their discretion, without charge, to officers and the Issue and sale of.

judiciary of the government of the District of Columbia, and to

other officers of the Government, and to institutions of learning, and to State and city officials, by way of documentary exchange,

copies of building, police, plumbing, and other municipal regula-

tions made and published by them in their official capacity, not exceeding in all one hundred copies, and the remainder of such

publications shall only be disposed of by sale at not less than the
cost price and ten per centum thereof; and all moneys received from the sale of said regulations shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the District of Columbia and the

Proceeds.

United States in equal parts.

1300

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

War Department.

MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT.

Army.

PAY DEPARTMENT.

Pay.
John R. Kissinger. Annuity. Post, p. 1906.

For pay of officers and enlisted men of the Army, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
For amount required to make monthly payments to John R. Kissinger, late of Company D, One hundred and fifty-seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and also late of Hospital Corps, United States Army, from February fifteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, inclusive, as authorized by the Act approved February fifteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, one thousand six hundred and fifty-three dollars and thirty-three cents.

Subsistence.

SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT.
For subsistence of the Army, including all objects mentioned under this head in Army appropriation Act for fiscal year nineteen " hundred and eleven, four hundred thousand dollars:

MISCELLANEOUS .

Wesley A. Stuart. Payment to.

For payment to Wesley A. Stuart, attorney, Sturgis, South Dakota,

for defending First Lieutenant David H. Biddle, in a suit brought

against that officer for causing a herd of horses to be ejected from the

military reservation at Fort Meade, South Dakota, fifty dollars.

Capt. William T. Wilder.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and

Credit in accounts. directed to credit the accounts of Captain William T. Wilder, paymaster, United States Army, with the sum of four hundred and four-

teen dollars and sixty-two cents, being the unrecovered balance of

public funds contained in an iron field safe that was stolen at Camp

E. S. Otis, Wyoming, on the night of August ninth, nineteen hundred

and ten, and for which Captain Wilder remains accountable.

Maj. William' B. Rochester.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and

Credit in accounts. directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Major William B.

Rochester, paymaster, United States Army, the sum of eighty-eight

dollars and eighty-nine cents suspended against the payment on his

voucher numbered eighty, for January, nineteen hundred and nine,

to Colonel William B. Haldeman, First Regiment of Infantry, Ken-

tucky National Guard, for the period from September twenty-third

to thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight, while participating in the

joint Army and militia maneuvers at Fort Benjamin Harrison,

Indiana .

Col. John L. Clem. Credit in accounts.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and

directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Colonel John L. Clem,

Assistant Quartermaster General, United States Army, the sum of

eighteen dollars and eighty-four cents, disallowed against him on the

books of the Treasury.

Maj. G. G. Bailey. Credit in accounts.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and

directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Major G. G. Bailey,

quartermaster, United States Army, the sum of one hundred and

thirty-four dollars and eighty-two cents, disallowed against him on the books of the Treasury.

Capt. Louis F Garrard.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and

Credit in accounts. directed to allow and credit in the accounts of Captain Louis F.

Garrard, quartermaster, United States Army, the sum of nineteen

dollars and ninety-five cents, disallowed against him on the books of the Treasury.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. II. CH. 240. 1911 .

1301

SIGNAL SERVICE.

Signal Service.

The funds appropriated in the Act approved March third, nineteen hundred and nine, for the purchase and development of wireless
telephone apparatus, are hereby made available, for the purpose heretofore appropriated, during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve.

Wireless telephone. Vol. 35, p. 734.

NATIONAL HOME FOR DISABLED VOLUNTEER SOLDIERS. HoVomleu.nteer Soldiers'

For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this SAunbtsei,spt.e7n3c2e.. head for the Central Branch in the sundry civil appropriation Act

for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, at the following branches, namely :
At the Northwestern Branch, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, six thousand six hundred dollars.

Milwaukee, Wis

At the Western Branch, Leavenworth, Kansas, twelve thousand Leavenworth,Kans. eight hundred dollars.

At the Pacific Branch, Santa Monica, California, two thousand four Santa Monica, Cal. hundred dollars.
At the Marion Branch, Marion, Indiana, two thousand four hundred Marion, Ind. dollars.
At the Danville Branch, Danville, Illinois, five thousand five hun- Danville, Ill. dred dollars.
At the Mountain Branch, Johnson City, Tennessee, nine thousand Johnson City, Tenn. three hundred dollars.
STATE OR TERRITORIAL HOMES FOR DISABLED SOLDIERS AND State or Territorial homes. SAILORS: For continuing aid to State or Territorial homes for the Vol. 25, p. 450.
support of disabled volunteer soldiers, in conformity with the Act approved August twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, including all classes of soldiers admissible to the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, eighty-one thousand one hundred and forty-three dollars and sixty cents: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be appor- Protvoixsiocsa.nts. tioned to any State or Territorial home that maintains a bar or Collections from canteen where intoxicating liquors are sold : Provided further, That inmates. for any sum or sums collected in any manner from inmates of such State or Territorial homes to be used for the support of said homes a like amount shall be deducted from the aid herein provided for, but this proviso shall not apply to any State or Territorial home into which the wives or widows of soldiers are admitted and maintained.

RIVER AND HARBOR WORK

Rivers and harbors.

To pay claims adjusted and settled under section four of the river cPolalyiisniogns, celtca.ims for

and harbor appropriation Act, approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, and certified to Congress in House Document Numbered Twelve hundred and forty-nine at the present session, four

nie, p. 676.

hundred and nineteen dollars and eighty cents.

Indiana Harbor, Indiana: So much as may be necessary of the InIdn. diana Harbor,

unexpended

balance

of

the

appropriation

heretofore

made

for

the

Inner harbor tenance.

main-

improvement of the harbor at Indiana Harbor, Indiana, is hereby

made available, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, for the

maintenance of the inner harbor, in accordance with the provisions of House Document Numbered One thousand one hundred and thirteen,

Sixtieth Congress, second session.

Authority is hereby given the Secretary of War, in his discretion, Union River,Me.

to apply any unexpended balance for Union River, Maine, of appropriation for improving said river and allotments for the same from

`88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11--8£

1302

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

appropriation "Preservation and maintenance of river and harbor
works," to removing obstructive bowlders and ledge along said river above the limits of the existing project.

Military Academy

MILITARY ACADEMY.

ofPcaaydeotfsc. ommandant For pay of one commandant of cadets, in addition to pay as captain, being for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, five

Fuel, etc.

hundred dollars and thirty-three cents. Current and ordinary expenses : For fuel and apparatus, namely,

coal, wood, charcoal, stoves, grates, heaters, furnaces, ranges and fixtures, fire bricks, clay, sand, and mica, and for repairs of steamheating and coal-conveying apparatus, grates, stoves, heaters, ranges, furnaces, five thousand five hundred dollars.

NavyDepartment.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

George F. Muth. Payment to.

To pay voucher in favor of George F. Muth and Company, for

blue-print cloth furnished the Bureau of Yards and Docks in August,

nineteen hundred and six, bill for which was not rendered until after

the balance under this appropriation had been carried to the surplus

fund, being for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, nine dol-

lars and seventy-five cents.

Collisions with

naval vessels.

To pay the claims adjusted and determined by the Navy Depart-

PAantyem,epn. t60o7f. claims. ment, under the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven (Thirty-six Statutes at Large, page six hundred

and seven), on account of damages occasioned to private property

by collisions with vessels of the United States Navy and for which the

naval vessels were responsible, certified to Congress at its present ses-

sion in House Documents Numbered Twelve hundred and ninety-five,

Thirteen hundred and twenty-one, and Thirteen hundred and eighty-

Canadian Electric six, two hundred and twenty-six dollars and six cents.

Light Co.

To pay the Canadian Electric Light Company for damages to its

Payment to.

cable by the United States gunboat Essex by fouling her anchor with

the company's cable between Levis and the city of Quebec, July

seventeenth, nineteen hundred and four, the same being in full for

and the receipt of the same to be taken and accepted as full and final

release of the claim, seven thousand three hundred and seven dollars

and thirty cents.

Navy.

NAVAL ESTABLISHMENT.

GENERAL ACCOUNT OF ADVANCES .

General account of

advances.

To reimburse "General account of advances," created by the Act

Vol. 20, p. 167.

of June nineteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight (Twentieth

Statutes at Large, page one hundred and sixty-seven) , for amounts advanced therefrom and expended on account of the several appropriations named in excess of the sums appropriated therefor for the

fiscal years given, found to be due the " general account " on adjust-

ment by the accounting officers, there is appropriated as follows:

Pay.

For pay of the Navy, nineteen hundred and eight, two thousand

one hundred and twenty-one dollars and thirty-one cents ;

Pay, miscellaneous. Marine Corps.

For pay of the Navy, nineteen hundred and seven, one thousand two hundred and eighty-nine dollars and twenty-four cents ;
For pay, miscellaneous, nineteen hundred and six, seventeen dollars and thirty-one cents ;
For transportation and recruiting, Marine Corps, nineteen hundred and seven, five dollars and twenty-five cents ;
For contingent, Marine Corps, nineteen hundred and eight, nineteen dollars and ninety-six cents :

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

1303

For outfits on first enlistment, Bureau of Navigation, nineteen hun- tiBonu.reau of Navigadred and eight, seven hundred and thirty-two dollars and seventy-five
cents ; For contingent, Bureau of Equipment, nineteen hundred and eight, meBnutr. eau of Equip-
ninety-four cents; For contingent, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, nineteen hundred anBdurSueragueorfy.Medicine
and eight, fifteen dollars and fifty-seven cents; For construction and repair, Bureau of Construction and Repair, tiBounraenaduRoefpCaoinrs.truc-
nineteen hundred and eight, three thousand three hundred and eight dollars and twenty-two cents ;
For steam machinery, Bureau of Steam Engineering, nineteen Bureau of Steam Engineering.
hundred and six, five hundred and ninety-eight dollars and fifty-four cents ;
For repairs and preservation at navy yards, nineteen hundred and vaRteipoani. rs and preser eight, sixteen thousand one hundred and two dollars and eighty-eight cents ;
For pay, miscellaneous, nineteen hundred and nine, fifteen thousand Pay,miscellaneous.
nine hundred and seventy-two. dollars and forty-eight cents ; For heating and lighting, Naval Academy, nineteen hundred and Naval Academy.
nine, two hundred and five dollars and sixty-four cents ; For coal and transportation, Bureau of Equipment, nineteen hun- meBnutr. eau of Equip-
dred and nine, nine thousand four hundred and fifty-nine dollars
and thirty-two cents; For repairs and preservation at navy yards, Bureau of Yards and anBduDroecakus.of Yards
Docks, nineteen hundred and nine, three thousand six hundred and
forty-three dollars and fifty-nine cents ; For medical department, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, nineteen anBdurSueragueorfy.Medicine
hundred and ten, sixteen thousand three hundred and twenty-six dollars and thirty-seven cents;
For medical department, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, nineteen hundred and nine, two hundred and forty-five dollars and three cents;
For contingent, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, nineteen hundred anBdurAcecaouuonftsS.upplies
and nine, six thousand three hundred and sixty-four dollars and seventy-six cents;
For engineering experimental station, Annapolis, Maryland, Bureau Bureau of Steam of Steam Engineering, nineteen hundred and ten, eighty dollars and Engineering.
forty-two cents; In all, seventy-six thousand five hundred and nine dollars and fifty-
eight cents.
PAY, MISCELLANEOUS.

For pay, miscellaneous, including all objects mentioned under this head in the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, one hundred and forty thousand dollars.
The Auditor for the Navy Department is directed to allow mileage to officers of the Navy who have heretofore been disallowed same by reason of a decision of the Assistant Comptroller of the Treasury dated March seventeenth, nineteen hundred and ten; and to pay said allowances out of any balances of the appropriations for pay, miscellaneous, of the Navy.
To reimburse clothing and small-stores fund for prison clothing furnished the marine officer in command of naval prison, navy yard, Mare Island, California, during the months of February, March, and June, nineteen hundred and nine, being for use of general courtsmartial prisoners confined in the prison, one thousand two hundred and eighty-two dollars and fifty cents.
To reimburse provisions, Navy, nineteen hundred and nine, for ice furnished various yard departments at naval station, Guantanamo, Cuba, during October, November, and December, nineteen hundred and eight, and March, April, and May, nineteen hundred and nine, one hundred and fifty-one dollars and seventy-eight cents.

Pay, miscellaneous. MAiclceoaugnetstoaolflfoiwceerds. MarepriIssolna.nd, Cal., Guantanamo, Cuba,

1304

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

Naval Academy.

NAVAL ACADEMY.

Rent, etc. ,

For rent of buildings for use of the academy and commutation of rent for bandsmen at eight dollars per month each, one thousand one hundred and fifty-two dollars .
For supplementary amount needed to pay commutation of rent for bandsmen at eight dollars per month each, from April twentyfirst, nineteen hundred and ten, to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, both inclusive, sixty-one dollars and thirty-eight cents .

Bureau of Navigation.

BUREAU OF NAVIGATION.

Naval training

station, Yerba Buena For maintenance of naval training station, Yerba Buena, Cali-

Island, Cal.

fornia, namely: For all objects mentioned under this head in the

Naval Appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, one thousand seven hundred and thirty-three dollars and

thirty cents. Bureau of Yards
and Docks.

BUREAU OF YARDS AND DOCKS.

Maintenance.

Maintenance, Bureau of Yards and Docks : For general maintenance of yards and docks, including all objects mentioned under this title of appropriation in the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, one hundred thousand dollars .

Bureau ofOrdnance.

BUREAU OF ORDNANCE.

Fort Mifflin maga-

zine, Pa.

Naval magazine, Fort Mifflin, Pennsylvania : For dikes, embank-

ments, spillways, and filling in lowlands, ten thousand dollars.

Naval Academy. Bancroft Hall.
Powerplant.

NAVAL ACADEMY.
Buildings and grounds : To provide separate systems in Bancroft Hall for the disposal of the sewage of the building and of the drainage from the kitchen, ten thousand dollars.
For additional amount required for the transfer of the power plant and for the completion of the installation of the new powerhouse, twenty-eight thousand eight hundred dollars.

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.

BUREAU OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.

Medical Department.

To supply a deficiency in the appropriation " Medical Department,"

including all objects mentioned under this title of appropriation in

Reimbursement.

the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, fifty thousand dollars.
For the reimbursement of the appropriation "Provisions, Navy, nineteen hundred and nine," for evaporated milk and other pro-

visions issued to the Medical Department by the general storekeepers

at the navy yards, Mare Island, California, and Charleston, South

Carolina, during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and nine, one hun-

dred and sixty-four dollars and fifty-four cents.

Transportation of remains.

BRINGING HOME REMAINS OF OFFICERS : Transportation of remains :

To supply a deficiency in the appropriation " Bringing home remains

of officers, and so forth," including all objects mentioned under this

title of appropriation in the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 240. 1911.

1305

MARINE CORPS

Marine Corps.

The Auditor for the Navy Department is authorized and directed FAolrleoiwgannsceerviocfe paayc-. to allow in the accounts of Lieutenant Colonel William C. Dawson, counts of paymasters, Major Harold C. Reisinger, and Captain Davis B. Wills, assistant for. paymasters, United States Marine Corps, the sums of one hundred
and forty-eight dollars and three cents, sixty-six dollars and fortyone cents, and fifty-three dollars and ninety-six cents, respectively, heretofore paid as foreign service pay to certain enlisted men, who have since been discharged, or have deserted ; which payments were disallowed, or are subject to disallowance, under decisions by the

Comptroller of the Treasury, dated April twenty-second, nineteen hundred and ten, and June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten.
For provisions, Marine Corps, including items specified under this
head in naval appropriation Acts, for fiscal years as follows:

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, seventy thousand dollars.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and nine, two thousand eight hundred and nine dollars and seventeen cents.
For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, four dollars.
For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, fifty cents. For fuel, Marine Corps, including items specified under this head in the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, ten thousand dollars. For contingent, Marine Corps, including items specified under this head in the naval appropriation Act for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, thirty dollars and sixty-two cents.

Fuel. Contingent.

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

Interior Department.

For reimbursement to the appropriation for contingent expenses,

John Allen Heany. Expenses, patent

Department of the Interior, nineteen hundred and eleven, of expenses case.

incurred in the investigation instituted in the Patent Office to deter-

mine the validity of certain applications for patent for electric light-

ing, filed by one John Allen Heany, including traveling expenses, expenses of witnesses, cost of copies of testimony, and other expenses incident to the investigation, two thousand five hundred dollars.

To reimburse the appropriation "Contingent expenses, Depart- BAduvraenacuesofto Meiqnuieps.. ment of the Interior, nineteen hundred and eleven,' on account of Ante, p. 369.

advanced expenditures made therefrom to the Bureau of Mines,
established in the Department of the Interior May sixteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, four thousand five hundred dollars.
Additional rent of building, Civil Service Commission : For addi- miCsisviioln.Service Comtional amount required during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and Addoiftfiicoensa. l rent of twelve to pay for rental of a suitable fireproof building, containing " Ante,p.795. not less than approximately forty thousand square feet of floor space, for the use of the Civil Service Commission and for any bureaus of
the Interior Department now occupying rented quarters, authorized to be leased for the period of ten years, three hundred and seventy-five dollars.

Removal from present quarters, Civil Service Commission: For moEvxalp.enses of removing the Civil Service Commission from its present quarters to

the new building, and for the purchase of necessary furniture, carpets,

curtains, awnings, shelving, bookcases, and other absolutely necessary

items for the furnishing and equipment of its new offices, to continue

available during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, four thousand dollars.

Repair of rooms, Pension Office Building: For repair of rooms in the Pension Office Building damaged by fire January thirteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, four thousand one hundred and seventyfive dollars.

PReepnasiirosn. Office.

1306

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

Balance available. Ante, p. 737.
Will M. Tipton. Payment to.

Repairs of buildings, Department of the Interior : That the unexpended balance of three thousand five hundred dollars provided in the sundry civil Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, for repairs of building, Pension Office, be made available for labor and material in connection with repairs to buildings, Department of the Interior, nineteen hundred and eleven.
To pay Will M. Tipton, inspector, Department of the Interior, balance found due in the settlement of his account for traveling expenses
for the six months ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ten, one hundred and sixty-nine dollars and eighty-nine cents.

Pension Office.

PENSION OFFICE.

Card index system. Use ofbalance,

So much of the appropriation of twenty thousand dollars for con-

Ante, p. 514.

tinuing the installation of the card-index system of the records of the

Pension Office made in the legislative, executive, and judicial appro-

priation act approved June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and ten, as

remains unexpended on the thirtieth day of June, nineteen hundred

and eleven, be, and the same is hereby, reappropriated and made

available during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, for continuing the installation of the card-index

system of the records of the Pension Office ; and also for the purchase

of the necessary additional typewriters for use in connection with such

work, the purchase and installation of new modern furniture and office

appliances in the Pension Office, and of steel cabinets for the pension

agency at Washington, District of Columbia, to protect checks and

paid vouchers in such office from loss by fire.

Capitol.

CAPITOL BUILDING.

Skylights.

For construction of five skylights over the old library section of the

Capitol, four thousand dollars.

Care,etc., ofgrounds. For the care and improvement of the grounds surrounding the

Capitol, Senate and House Office Buildings, pay of one clerk, mechan-

ics, gardeners, for fertilizers, repairs to pavements, walks, and road-

ways, two thousand one hundred dollars..

Repairs, etc.

For work at Capitol and for general repairs thereof, including flags

for the east and west fronts of the center of the Capitol and for Senate and House Office Buildings ; flagstaffs, halyards, and tackle, wages

of mechanics and laborers ; purchase, maintenance, and driving of

office vehicle, and not exceeding one hundred dollars for the purchase

of technical and necessary reference books and city directory, one thousand two hundred dollars.

Capitel powerplant. Completion.

To complete the construction of the building for the heating,

lighting, and power plant in connection with the Capitol Building and

Vol. 34, p. 1365.

other congressional buildings, including waterway, substation equipment, cable connections between buildings, and for each and every purpose in connection with and necessary for said completion, sixtyfour thousand three hundred and fifty-seven dollars and sixty-five cents, to be expended under the direction of the commission in control

of the House Office Building appointed under the sundry civil appro-

priation Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven.

Speaker.

The Speaker shall continue a member of the commission in control

coCmominstsiinonu.ance on of the House Office Building, appointed under the sundry civil

appropriation Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred andseven,

until his successor as Speaker is elected or his term as a Repre-

sentative in Congress shall have expired.

Elliott Woods. Services, House Of-

To pay Elliott Woods compensation for services in connection with

ficce Building,eetc.. the preparation of the plans and specifications for and superintending

Vol. 33, p. 1182. the construction of the House Office Building, the Capitol power

plant, and subway, as authorized by the Act approved March third, nineteen hundred and five, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 240. 1911.

1307

To pay Elliott Woods compensation for services in connection fiSceerBvuiicledsi,nSge,neattc.e Ofwith the preparation of the plans and specifications for and superin-

tending the construction of the Senate Office Building, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay J. C. Courts compensation for services as secretary of the JS.eCrv.iCcoeusr.ts.

House Office Building Commission since its creation in nineteen hun- Vol.33, p. 1182.

dred and three, as authorized by the Act approved March third, nine-

teen hundred and five, two thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay H. A. Vale compensation for services rendered to the Com- SHe.rAv.icVeasl. e.

mission for enlarging the Capitol Grounds, authorized by the Act Ante, p. 738.

approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, one thousand dollars.

PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE.

Public lands.

Idaho. Authority is hereby given to expend out of the sum appropriated Work in surveyor
by the Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, genAenrtael,'ps.o7f4f1i.ce. for the survey of public lands in Idaho, an additional sum of two
thousand dollars for the necessary office work connected therewith in

the surveyor general's office.

Montana.

Authority is hereby given to expend out of the sum appropriated Work in surveyor

by. the Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, genAenrtael,'ps.o7f4f1i.ce.

for the survey of public lands in Valley, Dawson, Custer, and Fergus

Counties, Montana, an additional sum of two thousand dollars for the

necessary office work connected therewith in the surveyor general's

office.

Authority is hereby given to expend out of the sum appropriated

Utah. Work in surveyor

by the Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, for gePnuebrlailc'sLaofwfisc, e2.d sess., the survey of public lands in Garfield, Iron, Kane, San Juan, and p.741.

Washington Counties, in the State of Utah, an additional sum of one thousand dollars for office work connected therewith in the surveyor

general's office.

Northern Pacific

To enable the Commissioner of the General Land Office to com- grant.

plete the examination and classification of lands within the limits of wiCtlhaisnsi. fying lands

the Northern Pacific grant under the Act of July second, eighteen VVOolL..2138,,pp.. 368637.. hundred and sixty-four (Thirteenth Statutes, page three hundred

and sixty-five), as provided in the Act of February twenty-sixth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-five (Twenty-eighth Statutes, page six hundred and eighty-three), such examination and classification when approved by the Secretary of the Interior to have the same force and effect as a classification by the mineral land commissioners

provided for in said Act of February twenty-sixth, eighteen hun-

dred and ninety-five, the sum of ten thousand dollars is hereby

appropriated in addition to the sum of thirty thousand dollars provided in the sundry civil Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen

hundred and ten, and included in the appropriation of seven hun-

dred and fifty thousand dollars for "Protecting public lands, timber, and so forth, nineteen hundred and ten and nineteen hundred and

eleven." The said additional appropriation of ten thousand dollars,

together with the unexpended balance of the thirty thousand dollars

for the years nineteen hundred and ten and nineteen hundred and

eleven, to continue available for expenditure during the fiscal year Proviso. ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve : Provided, That Perdiem. agents and others employed under this appropriation shall be allowed

per diem, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the

Interior may prescribe in lieu of subsistence, at a rate not exceeding

three dollars per day each and actual necessary expenses for trans-

portation, including necessary sleeping-car fares.

William H. Hous-

The accounting officers of the Treasury Department are hereby ton

authorized and directed to allow credit in the accounts of William H. Credit in accounts.

Houston, special disbursing agent, United States land office at Mis-

1308

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911..

soula, Montana, the sum of fifteen dollars and eighty-three cents, being the amount disallowed in the settlement of his accounts under the appropriation for " Contingent expenses of land offices, nineteen

hundred and nine," for payments made for janitor service from July

first, nineteen hundred and eight, to August twenty-eighth, nineteen

hundred and eight.

Fidelity and Guar- The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to pay to the Fidelity

anty Company.

Payment to.

and Guaranty Company, of Baltimore, Maryland, sureties for Benja-

min R. Richardson and James F. Trotter, deputy surveyors, the

Ante, p. 796.
Glen R. Metsker. Payment to.

sum of four hundred and sixty-two dollars and seventy-nine cents, being the amount appropriated by Act of Congress approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, for payment to the said Benjamin R. Richardson and James F. Trotter for surveys in Montana, executed under contract numbered five hundred and three, approved February twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and six.
The Auditor for the Interior Department is authorized and directed to approve and pay the accounts of Glen R. Metsker, special agent

of the General Land Office, for per diem fromMayfirst to June twenty-

seventh, inclusive, nineteen hundred and ten, amounting to three

hundred and forty-eight dollars, which accounts have been approved

by the Commissioner of the General Land Office and disallowed by

Receivers.

the Auditor for the Interior Department.

Reimbursement for To reimburse receivers of public moneys at United States land

erroneous deposits. offices for moneys erroneously deposited by them to the credit of the

United States in excess of public moneys received by and due from

them as shown on settlement of their final accounts by the Auditor

for the Interior Department, as set forth on pages twenty and twenty-

Deputy surveyors.

one, ofHouse Document Numbered Thirteen hundred and sixty-seven, of the present session, seventy-four dollars and forty cents.
For payment to certain United States deputy surveyors for surveys of public lands executed by them and necessary to complete the lines of surveys embraced in their contracts and special instructions issued thereunder, being the balance of the amounts found due them by the Commissioner of the General Land Office in the settlement of their accounts in accordance with the rates as authorized in the Acts

making appropriation for the survey and resurvey of public lands for
the fiscal year in which the work was executed, as fully set forth in House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred and sixty-seven, of

Charles F. Read. Credit in accounts.

the present session, five hundred and eighty-six dollars and eightyone cents.
The accounting officers of the Treasury are authorized and directed to credit the accounts of Charles F. Read, special disbursing agent, General Land Office, with the sum of three hundred and fifty-seven

dollars and fifty-four cents, being the amount suspended by said

accounting officers on account of payments in excess of ten cents per

Vol. 32, p. 790.

folio made by the disbursing officer to United States commissioners for taking depositions in land hearings under section four of the Act

of January thirty-first, nineteen hundred and three (Thirty-second

Idaho.

Statutes, page seven hundred and ninety) .

Reimbursement for To reimburse the State of Idaho, as provided in the Act approved

surveys. Vol. 28, p. 394.

August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, for moneys

advanced by said State to the United States, under provisions of said

Act, to secure the survey of lands granted to said State with a view

to satisfying the public land grant made by the Act admitting the State into the Union, as per certificates covering deposits to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States as fully set forth in House Document Numbered Fourteen hundred and two of this ses-

sion, eight thousand and four dollars.

Title Guaranty and

Surety Company.

To pay the Title Guaranty and Surety Company, Scranton, Penn-

Payment to.

sylvania, surety for David B. Wickersham, United States deputy sur-

veyor, for surveying public lands in Idaho under contract numbered

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1309

two hundred and ninety-one, dated October fifteenth, nineteen hundred and seven, as found due by the accounting officers of the Treasury by certificate of settlement by the Auditor for Interior Department, numbered nineteen thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight, of March first, nineteen hundred and eleven, one thousand six hundred and twenty dollars and eight cents, payable from the appropriation " Sur:veying the public lands, certified claims.'

GOVERNMENT HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE.

Government Insane Hospital.

The accounting officers of the Treasury are authorized and directed
to credit the accounts of M. Sanger, special disbursing agent, Government Hospital for the Insane, with the sum of one hundred and seventy dollars and five cents, being the amount disallowed, and which will be disallowed, by said accounting officers on account of payment made to and for Margaret Fitzpatrick for expenses in going to Chicago and return under direction of her superior officers.

MCr.eSdaitnginera.ccounts.

COLUMBIA INSTITUTION FOR DEAF AND DUMB.

Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institution.

The expenditures incurred during the current fiscal year for furnishing and equipping the western dormitory of the Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, partially destroyed by fire February sixth, nineteen hundred and ten, and for resurfacing asphalt walks and driveways adjacent thereto, may be paid from the appropriation available for the current year for rebuilding of the western dormitory.

RAenptaei, rps.,7e9t6c..

INDIAN AFFAIRS.

Indian Affairs.

Administration of affairs of the Five Civilized.Tribes : For expense TrFibievse. Civilized of administration of affairs of the Five Civilized Tribes, Oklahoma, Administration exin the completion of the work heretofore required by law to be done penses. by the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes, including salaries of employees and expenses incident to the selling of the unallotted
lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, and in the reappraisement and selling of the unallotted timber lands of the Choctaw Nation and the timber thereon; the amount appropriated to be reimbursable from Reimbursement.
the proceeds of the sales of said lands and timber, thirty thousand dollars.
For additional pay to Second Assistant Commissioner of Indian CoSmemcisosnidoneArs.sistant Affairs, who shall perform the duties of chief clerk, to be appointed AAdndlie,tpio.n1a2l15p.ay. by the Secretary of the Interior, five hundred dollars.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

Geological Survey.

For geologic surveys in the various portions of the United States: To pay Daniel E. Williard for geological field work and compilation necessary to the publication of the Tower, North Dakota, geological folio, for the fiscal years nineteen hundred and four and nineteen hundred and five, respectively, four hundred dollars.
The accounting officers of the Treasury Department are authorized and directed to credit in the accounts Philip S. Smith, assistant geologist, United States Geological Survey, special disbursing agent, the sum of four hundred and fifteen dollars in public funds pertaining to the appropriation for the continuation of the investigations of the mineral resources of Alaska, fiscal years nineteen hundred and ten and nineteen hundred and eleven, lost while engaged in the lawful discharge of his official work on the twenty-second day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, in crossing the Kogoluktuk River, a tributary of the Kubuk, in northern Alaska, through no fault or negligence on the part of said Philip S. Smith.

Daniel E. Williard. Payment to.
PChreidliitpisn.Samcictohun, ts.

1310

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 240. 1911.

Meridian Hill Park, D. C.

MERIDIAN HILL PARK.

Condemnation expenses.

Condemnation of land for park purposes in the District of Columbia

Ante, p. 700.

included between Euclid Street, Columbia Avenue or Fifteenth

Street, W Street or Florida Avenue, and Sixteenth Street extended,

in Hall and Elvan's subdivision of Meridian Hill : To enable the

Secretary of the Interior to carry into effect the provisions of section thirty-six of an Act of Congress entitled " An Act to increase the limit of cost of certain public buildings, to authorize the enlargement , extension, remodeling, or improvement of certain public buildings, to authorize the erection and completion of public buildings, to author"-" ize the purchase of sites for public buildings, and for other purposes, four hundred and ninety thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary; one-half of which sum, or so much thereof as may be expended, shall be reimbursed to the Treasury of the United States, as required in said section thirty-six, out of the revenues of the District of Columbia, in four equal annual installments, beginning with the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve , with interest at the rate of three per centum per annum upon the deferred payments.

Army and Navy pensions.

ARMY AND NAVY PENSIONS.

Invalid, etc., pen-

sions.

Army and Navy pensions as follows : For invalids, widows, and

minor children, and dependent relatives, Army nurses, and all other

pensioners who are now borne on the rolls or who may hereafter

Provisos.
fuNnadv. y from Accounting.

be placed thereon under the provisions of any and all Acts of Congress: Provided, That the appropriation aforesaid for Navy pensions naval shall be paid from the income of the Navy pension fund, so far as
the same shall be sufficient for that purpose: And provided further, That the amount expended under each of the above items shall be

accounted for separately, two million five hundred thousand dollars.

Department of Jus tice.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Stationery.

For stationery for the department and its several bureaus, for the

fiscal year nineteen hundred and ten, fifteen dollars and sixteen cents.

Miscellaneous.

For miscellaneous expenditures, including telegraphing, fuel, lights,

foreign postage, labor, repairs of buildings, care of grounds, books of

reference, periodicals, typewriters and exchange of same, and other

necessaries directly ordered by the Attorney General, two thousand

dollars.

Furniture, etc.

For furniture and repairs, including carpets, file holders, and cases,

one thousand dollars.

Rent of additional

quarters.

For rent of additional quarters for the Department of Justice for

the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, five thousand five hun-

dred dollars.

Court of appeals, D. C.

For continuing the construction at the Court of Appeals Building,

Heating, etc.

including the extension of steam heating system to connect with the

steam heating system of the Interior Department plant, six thousand

six hundred and seventeen dollars, to be immediately available.

Miscellaneous.

MISCELLANEOUS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Alaska . Incidental expenses. Incidental expenses, Territory of Alaska: For furniture, fuel, books,

stationery, and other incidental expenses for the offices of the mar-

shals and attorneys for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight,

Goulder, Holding, fifteen dollars and sixty-two cents.

and Masten.

Payment for legal services : For payment to Goulder, Holding, and

Legal services. Masten for legal services rendered in behalf of the United States in

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1311

the matter of the claim for damage to merchandise belonging to the

United States, destroyed on the steamer Conestoga, nine hundred and

forty dollars.

Detection and prosecution of crimes:

Prosecution For the detection and prose- crimes.

of

cution of crimes against the United States, the investigation of the official acts, records, and accounts of marshals, attorneys, clerks, and referees of the United States courts and the Territorial courts, and United States commissioners, for which purpose all the official papers, records, and dockets of said officers, without exception, shall be

examined by the agents of the Attorney General at any time ; for the

protection of the person of the President of the United States; for

such other investigations regarding official matters under the control
of the Department of Justice as may be directed by the Attorney
General; to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General,
forty-five thousand dollars. W. K. Kimball.
Payment to estate of W. K. Kimball : For payment to the estate Payment to estate
of W. K. Kimball, late United States marshal for the district of Maine, of.

the amount found due the late marshal as per first auditor's certificate

numbered fifteen thousand three hundred and twenty-six, dated June

nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and admitted and certi-

fied by the first comptroller June twentieth, eighteen hundred and

sixty-two, eighty dollars and eighty cents.

Repairs to courthouse, Fairbanks, Alaska: For repairs and replace- FCaoiurrbtahonuksse, rAelpaasikras.. ments necessary to cover the loss incident to the recent fire in the

courthouse at Fairbanks, Alaska, to be expended under the direction

of the Attorney General, four thousand dollars.

JUDICIAL .

Judicial.

For the

purchase

of

law

books

and

rebinding

law

books

for

the

nine

Law books, circuit courts of appeals.

libraries of the United States circuit courts of appeals, to be expended

under the direction of the Attorney General upon the requisition of

the court (all books purchased hereunder to be plainly marked " The

property of the United States") for the fiscal year nineteen hundred

and eight, two hundred and forty-eight dollars.

EXPENSES OF UNITED STATES COURTS.

United States courts.

For salaries of United States, district attorneys and expenses of District attorney's.
United States district attorneys and their regular assistants for fiscal years as follows:

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, thirteen thousand dollars.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, sixty dollars.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, one hundred and fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents.
For fees of clerks, fifteen thousand dollars.
For fees of witnesses and for payment of the actual expenses of

Clerks'fees. Witness fees.

witnesses, as provided by section eight hundred and fifty, Revised
Statutes, seventy-five thousand dollars. Miscellaneous ex-
For payment of such miscellaneous expenses as may be authorized penses.
by the Attorney General for the United States courts and their

officers for fiscal years as follows : For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, fifty thousand
dollars.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight, seven hundred and sixty-one dollars and sixty-two cents.

For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and seven, one hundred and ninety-seven dollars and seventy cents.
For the fiscal year nineteen hundred and four, six dollars.

1312

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 240. 1911.

Supplies.

For supplies for the United States courts and judicial officers, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and six, fifty-four cents.

Department of Agriculture.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

Forest Service. General expenses. General expenses, Forest Service: To supply a deficiency in the

appropriation " General expenses, Forest Service," including each

and every object authorized by law and specified in the appropriation of four million six hundred and seventy-two thousand nine hundred

dollars under this title in the "Act making appropriations for the

Department of Agriculture for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven," approved May twenty-sixth, nineteen

hundred and ten, nine hundred thousand dollars.

Insecticide act.

Expenses of enforc- Enforcement of the insecticide Act : To enable the Secretary of

ing. Ante, p. 331.

Agriculture during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven to

carry into effect the provisions of the Act of April twenty-sixth, nine-

teen hundred and ten, entitled "An Act for preventing the manufacture, sale, or transportation of adulterated or misbranded Paris greens,

lead arsenates, and other insecticides, and also fungicides, and for regulating traffic therein, and for other purposes,"' in the city of Washington and elsewhere, including chemical apparatus, chemicals

and supplies, repairs to apparatus, rent, gas, electric current, official

traveling expenses, telegraph and telephone service, express and

freight charges, and all other' expenses, employing such assistants,

clerks, and other persons as may be considered necessary for the pur-

poses named, thirty-five thousand dollars.

Fires in national

forests.

For the payment of all necessary expenses involved in the interment

Expenses of burials, of the bodies of men who were killed while in the employment of the relief, etc.
Department of Agriculture fighting fires on the national forests prior

to December first, nineteen hundred and ten, and for the relief of their

dependent relatives, also for the hospital services and medical attend-

ance of the injured men; this appropriation to continue available

during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, and all payments therefrom to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury upon the rec-

ommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture and to be supported by

evidence satisfactory to both of them, fifteen thousand dollars. Reimbursing em- To reimburse temporary employees of the Forest Service for the ptliomyee.es for loss of value of the time lost from their usual employment by reason of

injuries sustained while fighting fires on the national forests, five thousand four hundred and fifty dollars. Reimbursement for To reimburse the owners for the value of horses and horse equiphorses, etc. ment destroyed while being used by Government employees in fighting fires while on the national forests, two thousand seven hundred and

forty-two dollars and ninety cents.

.Department ofCommerce and Labor.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR.

Bureau ofImmigration and Naturaliza-
tion.

BUREAU OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION.

Immigration expenses.

Expenses of regulating immigration : For the payment to State

insPtaiytumteinonts. to State institutions for the treatment of aliens deported on or prior to June

Vol. 34, p. 901. thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nine, under the provisions of section

twenty of the Act of February twentieth, nineteen hundred and

seven (Thirty-fourth Statutes, page nine hundred and four), which

provides: "That any alien who shall enter the United States in

violation of law, and such as become public charges from causes

existing prior to landing, shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary of

Commerce and Labor, be taken into custody and deported to the

country whence he came at any time within three years after the date

SIXTY-FIRST , CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1313

of his entry into the United States. Such deportation, including one-half of the entire cost of removal to the port of deportation, shall

be at the expense of the contractor, procurer, or other person by

whom the alien was unlawfully induced to enter the United States,

or, if that can not be done, then the cost of removal to the port of

deportation shall be at the expense of the immigrant fund," thirteen

thousand dollars.

For rent of pension agency at New York, New York, four thousand NePwenYsoriko,nN,.Ya.gency,

five hundred dollars.

Rent.

Salaries, Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization (Division of siNoant.uralization divi-

Naturalization) : For the following for the balance of the fiscal year Clerks, etc.

nineteen hundred and eleven, namely: One clerk of class four; two

clerks of class three ; three clerks of class two ; three clerks of class

one ; three clerks, at the rate of one thousand dollars each per annum; one assistant messenger; one messenger boy, at the rate of four hun-

dred and eighty dollars per annum; in all, five thousand six hundred

and sixty-six dollars and sixty-seven cents, or so much thereof as

may be necessary.

Additional assistants to clerks of courts in naturalization cases :

Clerks ofcourts. Assistance in nat-

For additional clerical assistance in naturalization matters for the uralization cases.

Kings County and clerks of the supreme court for Kings County, New York, and the New York County,

supreme court for New York County, New York, in addition to the N. Y. available one-half of the naturalization fees for clerical assistance in

such matters during the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, two thousand eight hundred and sixty-one dollars.
Relief of William L. Soleau: The accounting officers of the Treasury are authorized and directed to credit in the accounts of William L.

William L. Soleau. Credit in accounts.

Soleau, disbursing clerk, Department of Commerce and Labor, the

sum of twenty-five dollars and thirty cents paid by him for envelopes for the official use of the Immigration Service at Ellis Island, New

York, disallowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department because the envelopes were not bought under contract by the

Postmaster General, as required by the act of January twelfth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five.

BUREAU OF STANDARDS.

Bureau of Standards.

For fuel for heat, light, and power, one thousand five hundred dollars.
LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE.

Fuel. Lighthouse Service.

For the construction of a barge for the lighthouse depot at Saint SBaairngteJfoosredpehp,oMti. ch. Joseph, Michigan, to continue available during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, seven thousand dollars.

CENSUS OFFICE.

Census Office.

The Director of the Census is hereby authorized, out of the appro- PAlaicyemVe.nHotugohftoenx-.

priations made for the Bureau of the Census, to pay the reasonable penses.

expenses of the hospital and surgical treatment of Alice V. Houghton ,

incurred by reason of the injury suffered by her at the Bureau of

the Census on January thirty-first, nineteen hundred and eleven,

such payment, however, not to exceed one thousand dollars: Pro-

Proviso. Pay continued.

vided further, That the Director of the Census is authorized to con-

tinue to pay the compensation of the said Alice V. Houghton, at the

rate she was receiving at the time of the accident, for a period of one year from the date thereof.

1314

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. í. 240. 1911 .

Coast and Geodetic Survey.

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY .

J. S. Hill. Reimbursimen:.

To reimburse J. S. Hill, chief of party, Coast and Geodetic Survey, for amount expended in replacing a sail skiff lost in a storm at Beaufort, North Carolina, which was rented in connection with a survey by the Coast and Geodetic Survey on the North Carolina coast during February, nineteen hundred and eight, twenty dollars.

Postal service.

OUT OF THE POSTAL REVENUES.

GREATER NEW YORK LETTER CARRIERS.

Letter carriers' claims, New York

To pay the claims of Greater New York letter carriers for additional

City. Payment of.

salary under section two of the Act of January third, eighteen hun-

Vol. 24, p. 355.

dred and eighty-seven (Twenty-fourth Statutes, page three hundred

and fifty-five), the decision of the Court of Claims and the decisions

of the Auditor for the Post Office Department and Comptroller of the

Treasury, being the unpaid portions chargeable to the fiscal year

nineteen hundred and eight and prior years, the appropriations there-

for having been exhausted or carried to the surplus fund, said claims

being fully set forth in House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred

and sixty-one of the present session of Congress, seventy-eight thou-

sand eight hundred and fifty-seven dollars and forty-five cents.

LEGISLATIVE .

SENATE .

Samuel D. McEnery. Payment to widow. To pay Elizabeth Phillips McEnery, widow of Honorable Samuel

D. McEnery, late a Senator from the State of Louisiana, seven thou-

sand five hundred dollars.

John W. Daniel. Payment to widow.

To pay Julia E. Daniel, widow of Honorable John W. Daniel, late a

Senator from the State of Virginia, seven thousand five hundred

dollars .

Jonathan P. Dolli-

ver.

To pay Louise P. Dolliver, widow of Jonathan P. Dolliver, late a

Payment to widow. Senator from the State of Iowa, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Alexander S. Clay. Payment to widow.

To pay Frances W. Clay, widow of Honorable Alexander S. Clay,

late a Senator from the State of Georgia, seven thousand five hundred
dollars. Stephen B. Elkins. Payment to widow. To pay Hallie D. Elkins, widow of Honorable Stephen B. Elkins,

late a Senator from the State of West Virginia, seven thousand five.
hundred dollars. Charles J. Hughes. Payment to widow. To pay Lucy M. Hughes, widow of Honorable Charles J. Hughes,

junior, late a Senator from the State of Colorado , seven thousand five hundred dollars. Thomas P. Cleaves. Payment to widow. To pay Elizabeth A. Cleaves, widow of Thomas P. Cleaves, late

clerk to the Committee on Appropriations, a sum equal to one year's

salary, at the rate he was receiving bylaw at the time of his death, said

sum to be considered as including funeral expenses and all other

allowances, five thousand dollars.

Robert W. Farrar.

Services.

To pay Robert W. Farrar for indexing and extra services as clerk

Dennis M. Kerr. Services.

to the Committee on Pensions, Sixty-first Congress, third session, one thousand two hundred dollars.
To pay Dennis M. Kerr for services as assistant clerk by detail to

Official reporters. Extra services.

the Committee on Pensions, Sixty-first Congress, third session, one thousand two hundred dollars.
To reimburse the official reporters of the proceedings and debates

of the Senate for expenses incurred during the third session of the

Sixty-first Congress for clerk hire and other extra clerical services,

four thousand seven hundred and forty dollar.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1315

The Secretary of the Senate is hereby authorized and directed to Jesse G. Perry, George P. Mundy, and
pay Jesse G. Perry, clerk to the Honorable J. M. Terrell, of Georgia, Clarence E. Dawson.
from November seventeenth to December fifth, nineteen hundred and Clerksto Senators.

ten ; George P. Mundy, clerk to the Honorable Claude A. Swanson,

ofVirginia, from August first to December fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, and Clarence E. Dawson, who served as clerk to the Honorable Lafayette Young, of Iowa, from November fifteenth to December

nineteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, for clerical services rendered,

from the appropriations for salaries to clerks, messengers, and others

in the service of the Senate, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and

eleven. For compensation of the officers , clerks, messengers, and others in
the service of the Senate, namely: For compensation of five clerks to Senators who are not chairmen of committees, from March fourth to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, at two thousand dollars

Clerks to Senators.

per annum, three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars;

For compensation of five clerks to Senators who are not chairmen

of committees, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, at

two thousand dollars per annum, ten thousand dollars. For ten stenographers to Senators who are not chairmen of com- BeSntateonrosg.raphers to
mittees, at one thousand two hundred dollars each per annum, from

March fourth to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, three thousand nine hundred dollars, and from July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, to June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, twelve thousand dollars ; in all, fifteen thousand nine hundred dollars.

To pay J. H. Jones for extra services for the third session of the JS.erHv.icJeosn.es. Sixty-first Congress in the care of the Senate chronometer and for the
work in connection therewith, one hundred dollars.

To pay Charles H. McGurrin balance due him for copies of testi- riCn.harles H. McGurmony furnished by order of the chairman of the Committee on Privi- Services.
leges and Elections to members of subcommittee making investigation of charges against William Lorimer, a Senator from the State of
Illinois, thirty-one thousand two hundred and fifty-five folios, at five
cents per folio, one thousand five hundred and sixty-two dollars and seventy-five cents, to be immediately available.
For the expenses of the commission to investigate the matter of plCooyemrm'isslsiiaboinliotny, Eetmc-. employer's liability and workman's compensation, created under joint Expenses resolution adopted June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, the Ante,p. 834. sum of ten thousand dollars in addition to the sum heretofore appro- Approval of acpriated; all moneys appropriated for the purposes of said commission to be paid out on the audit and order of the chairman or acting chairman of said commission, which audit and order shall be conclu-
sive and binding upon all departments as to the correctness of the accounts of such commission; the time in which said commission Report. shall be required to report through the President to Congress being hereby extended to the first day of January, nineteen hundred and twelve.

To pay Louis C. Drapeau for stenographic services in reporting LReopuoirstGi.nDgr. apeau.
hearings before the Committee on Industrial Expositions and the Committee on Conservation of National Resources, seventy-nine

printed pages, at one dollar and twenty-five cents per page, ninety-
eight dollars and seventy-five cents. K. F. Lawler.
To pay K. F. Lawler for services rendered to the Committee on Services. Privileges and Elections making investigation of the charges against
William Lorimer, involving his right to retain his seat in the Senate of the United States as a Senator from the State of Illinois, one
thousand dollars.
To pay Joseph S. McCoy and James M. Baker on account of addi- anJdosJeapmhesBM.. BMackCeor.y tional services rendered and expenses incurred in preparing data and Services. statistics for the Select Committee on Wages and the Prices of Com-

1316

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

modities, autherized by Senate resolution February ninth, nineteen

hundred and ten, one thousand dollars each.

Senate Office Building.

To pay to the employees of the Senate Office Building now carried

foPraeyxtrtaoseervmipcleosy. ees on the maintenance roll of the Senate Office Building, for extra serv-

ices during the third session of the Sixty-first Congress , a sum equal to

one month's pay at the compensation now paid them, the same to be

immediately available.

Harry B. Straight.

· Services.

To pay Harry B. Straight for extra clerical services in connection

with the preparation of the omnibus claims bill, five hundred and forty dollars.

F. H. Wakefield.

To pay F. H. Wakefield one thousand five hundred dollars for pre-

History of legisla-

tion , etc.

paring the history of legislation for the Senate in the Sixty-first Con-

gress and for extra services in carrying out his tracing and notification

plan to the Members of the Senate and clerks of committees heretofore

and hereafter to be rendered.

Leonard Under-

wood.

To pay Leonard Underwood, for extra services as clerk to the Com-

Services.

mittee on Enrolled Bills, three hundred dollars.

Committeeon Cuban Relations.

For additional amount to pay the assistant clerk to the Committee

Assistant clerk. on Cuban Relations a salary of one thousand eight hundred dollars for

the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, three hundred and sixty

dollars.

Edward T. Clark. Services.

To pay Edward T. Clark for extra services as secretary of the Select

Committee on Wages and Prices of Commodities, six hundred dollars.

Capitol. Senate kitchens, etc.

For the Capitol : For additional amount for repairs, improvements,

and equipment to the Senate kitchens and restaurants in the Capitol

Building, including personal and other services, to be expended by

the Superintendent of the Capitol Building and Grounds under the

supervision of the Committee on Rules, United States Senate, eighteen

thousand dollars.

Richard A. Shaw. Services.

To pay Richard A. Shaw for special services to the Senate, one thou-

sand two hundred and fifty dollars.

Maltby Building, repairs.

The unexpended balance of the appropriation for repairs of the

Maltby Building for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven is

hereby made available for use during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

O. B. Kilbourn. Services .

To pay O. B. Kilbourn, for services as stenographer to subcommittee of the Committee on the District of Columbia in connection with the

R. W. Thompson. Services.

compilation and classification of the insurance laws of the several States, five hundred dollars.
To payto R. W. Thompson, for expert services in the compilation and classification of the insurance laws of the several States for the.

Senate committee on the District of Columbia, two thousand dollars.

Otto C. Strom and

Warren J. Davis.

To enable the Secretary of the Senate to pay to Otto C. Strom and

Compensation. Warren J. Davis, clerks to Senators, a sum equal to one month's pay

Financial clerk. Additional pay.

at the compensation paid such clerks by law. To pay the financial clerk of the Senate for the fiscal year nineteen
hundred and twelve four hundred dollars in addition to the salary he

John H. Walker. Services.
Francis B. Lloyd. Extra pay.
Julian M. Brown. Additional pay."

is now receiving. To pay John H. Walker, clerk to the Committee on the District of
Columbia, for extra services rendered during the Sixty-first Congress, five hundred dollars.
To enable the Secretary of the Senate to pay Francis B. Lloyd, employed in connection with the Senate Office Building, for extra services during the third session of the Sixty-first Congress, a sum equal to one month's pay at the rate of compensation he now receives.
For additional amount to pay Julian M. Brown, mail carrier in the Senate Office Building, a salary at the rate of twelve hundred dollars per annum, for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven, four

hundred and eighty dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

1317

To enable the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House ,toExcotnrgaremsosniotnha'ls peamyof Representatives to pay to the officers and employees of the Senate ployees.

and House borne on the annual and session rolls on the first day of

February, nineteen hundred and eleven, including the Capitol police, the official reporters of the Senate and House, and W. A. Smith,

Congressional Record clerk, for extra services during the third session

of the Sixty-first Congress, a sum equal to one month's pay at the

compensation then paid them by law, the same to be immediately

available.

Commission on

For additional amount for the expenses of the joint commission bonding charges.

created by the urgent deficiency appropriation Act approved August Ante,p. 126.

fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, to inquire into rates of premium for

bonds of officers or employees of the United States, including all necessary expert, clerical, and other personal services, two thousand

dollars.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

House of Representatives.

W. P. Brownlow. To pay the widow of W. P. Brownlow, late a Representative fro m Paytowidow. the State of Tennessee, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay the widow of S. L. Gilmore, late a' Representative from the BP.aLy.tGoiwlimdoroew.. State of Louisiana, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay the widow of C. Q. Tirrell, late a Representative from the Pa..yTtiorwrieldlo.w. State of Massachusetts, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay the widow of W. W. Foulkrod, late a Representative from WP.ayWt.owFoiudlokwr.od.

the State of Pennsylvania, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

To pay the widow of Joel Cook, late a Representative from the JPoaeyltCoowoikd, ow

State of Pennsylvania, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

AmosL. Allen.

To pay the legal heirs of Amos L. Allen, late a Representative Pay to legal heirs.

from the State of Maine, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Contested election

For allowance to the following contestants and contestees for expenses.

expenses incurred in contested-election cases as authorized and recom-

mended by the Committees on Elections : To Henry C. Warmouth, one thousand six hundred and eighty-
five dollars and twenty cents ;
To Joseph F. O'Connell, two thousand dollars ; To J. Mitchell Galvin, two thousand dollars;
To Albert Estopinal, two thousand dollars;

Henry C. War-
Joseph F.O'Connell. J. Mitchell Galvin. Albert Estopinal.

To John A. Smith, one thousand two hundred and sixty-two dollars ; To Edwin Yates Webb, one thousand four hundred and forty-one dollars and sixty-four cents ;
To John M. Parsons, two thousand dollars ; To Edwin W. Saunders, two thousand dollars;

John A. Smith. Edwin Yates Webb.
John M. Parsons, Edwin W.Saunders.

In all, fourteen thousand three hundred and eighty- eight dollars and

eighty-four cents.

For

miscellaneous

items

and

expenses

of

special

and

select

Miscellaneous com- items,etc.

mittees, exclusive of salaries and labor, unless specifically ordered by the House of Representatives, twenty thousand dollars.
For fuel and oil for the heating apparatus, five thousand dollars. For expert, clerical, and stenographic services, to be disbursed by icEesx. pert, etc., servthe Clerk of the House on vouchers approved by Representative

Oscar W. Underwood, and to continue available during the fiscal ·
year nineteen hundred and twelve, seven thousand five hundred
dollars.

Printing and binding may be done, in matters pertaining to the inPgrionnttianrgifaf mnadttbeirnsd.tariff, at the Government Printing Office until January first, nineteen hundred and twelve, on the requisition of Representative Oscar W. Underwood.
To reimburse the official reporters of debates and the stenographers anOdffsitceinoaglrarpehpeorrst.ers to committees on the rolls on February twenty-second, nineteen Extra services.
hundred and eleven, for moneys actually expended by them for 88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-85

1318

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

clerical assistance and for extra clerical services during the third

A. C.Welch. Pay to widow of.
Post office. Messengers.

session of the Sixty-first Congress, seven hundred and fifty dollars each ; to Mrs. Elizabeth Welch, widow of A. C. Welch, five hundred dollars; and to John J. Cameron, two hundred and forty dollars ; in all, seven thousand four hundred and ninety dollars.
To continue the employment of seven messengers, at one hundred dollars per month each, in the post office of the House of Representatives, from March fourth until December first, inclusive, nine-

teen hundred and eleven, six thousand two hundred and thirty

dollars.

Laws relating to

House employees, etc. For indexing and typewriting services, at seventy-five dollars per

Compiling.

month from March fourth, nineteen hundred and eleven, to June

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, to continue the compilation

of laws, and so forth, relating to the employees, duties, and com-

pensation of employees of the House of Representatives and matter

pertaining to the disbursement of the contingent fund authorized by

resolution of March tenth, nineteen hundred and ten, one thousand

four hundred dollars.

Folding speeches,

etc.

For folding speeches and pamphlets, at a rate not exceeding one

dollar per thousand, to continue available during the fiscal year

nineteen hundred and twelve, two thousand dollars. Contingent fund.
Approval of vouch- Hereafter the payments made from the contingent fund of the

AercscboyuCnotmmsi,tctoenecloun- House of Representatives upon vouchers approved by the Committee

sive.

on Accounts shall be deemed, held , and taken, and are hereby declared

to be conclusive upon all the departments and officers of the Govern-

Robert W. Dyer. Additional pay.

ment. To pay Robert W. Dyer, clerk to the Committee on the Public

George Jennison. Additional pay.
R. B. Horton. Services.

Lands, additional compensation, five hundred dollars. To pay George Jennison, special messenger, as additional compen-
sation, two hundred dollars.
To pay R. B. Horton for services rendered the . Committee on

M.C. Shield. Services.
Fred P. Fellows. Services.
George B. Serenbetz, JM.arBi.eHGo.lPloottweary, and
Services.

Insular Affairs, two hundred and fifty dollars. To pay M. C. Shield additional compensation for services during the
Sixty-first Congress, six hundred dollars.
To pay Fred P. Fellows for extra services rendered during the Sixty-first Congress, six hundred dollars.
To pay George B. Serenbetz, J. B. Holloway, and Marie G. Potter six hundred dollars each, additional compensation for services rendered the Committee on War Claims and the Committee on

James A. Gassaway. Claims, respectively, one thousand eight hundred dollars.

Services.

To pay James A. Gassaway for services as a laborer in the offices of

the Chief Clerk, the disbursing clerk, and in the stationery room from

August sixth to December sixth, nineteen hundred and nine, one

hunared and fifty dollars.

Joseph B. Sparks. Services.

To pay Joseph B. Sparks for extra services rendered during the

E. R. Ernst. Services.

Sixty-first Congress, eighty-seven dollars and fifty cents. To pay E. R. Ernst additional compensation for extra services

rendered during the Sixty-first Congress, two hundred dollars.

Edwin L.Williams.

Services.

To pay Edwin L. Williams for extra services rendered during the

W.S. Topping. Services.

Sixty-first Congress, five hundred dollars. To pay W. S. Topping for extra services rendered during the

Sixty-first Congress, five hundred dollars.

Florence A. Don-

nelley.

To pay Florence A. Donnelley for extra services rendered during the

Services.

Sixty-first Congress, six hundred dollars .

George F. Ebers. Services.

To pay George F. Evers for extra services rendered during the

Sixty-first Congress, two hundred and fifty dollars.

Marshall Pickering

and Charles L. Wil- For compensation at the rate of one thousand two hundred dollars

liams. Services.

per annum each for the services of Marshall Pickering and Charles L.

Williams, respectively, as special messengers in the majority and

minority caucus rooms.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1319

To pay Dio W. Dunham for extra services rendered during the Sixty-first Congress, three hundred dollars.
To pay N. T. Hynson, clerk to the Committee on Expenditures in the Navy Department, additional compensation, five hundred dollars.
To pay W. H. Estey, cashier in the office of the Sergeant at Arms, eight hundred and fifty dollars.
To pay J. C. Stewart for caring for and regulating the House chronometer, one hundred dollars.
To pay Edward S. Glavis, clerk to the Committee on Expenditures
in the Department of Agriculture, additional compensation, five hundred dollars.

DSeirovWic.eDs.unham.
NAd.dTi.tHiyonnaslopn.ay. W.H.Estey. Services.
JS.eCr.viScteesw.art.
AEdddwiatriodn8a.lGplaavyi. s.

To pay Charles S. Greenwood, clerk to the Committee on Expendi- Charles S. Green. tures in the Treasury Department, additional compensation, five Additional pay. hundred dollars.

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

Government Printing Office.

For payment to Samuel Robinson, William Madden, and Joseph WiSlalmiuaemlMadRdoebinn, saonnd De Fontes, as messengers on night duty during the third session of the Joseph De Fontes. present Congress, for extra services, seven hundred dollars each; in all, two thousand one hundred dollars.

JUDGMENTS, UNITED STATES COURTS.

Judgments, United States Courts.

For payment of the final judgments and decrees, including costs of suit, which have been rendered under the provisions of the Act of March third, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, entitled "An Act to provide for the bringing of suits against the Government of the United States," certified to Congress at its present session by the Attorney General in House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred and twentyseven, and which have not been appealed, fourteen thousand nine hundred and twenty-six dollars and fifty-nine cents, together with such additional sum as may be necessary to pay interest on the respective judgments at the rate of four per centum per annum from the date thereof until the time this appropriation is made: Provided, That none of the judgments herein provided for shall be paid until the right of appeal shall have expired.

PVaoylr. 2i4e,npt. 505.
Proviso. Appeal.

JUDGMENTS, COURT OF CLAIMS.

Judgments, Court of Claims.

For the payment of the judgments rendered by the Court of Claims, reported to Congress at its present session in House Documents Numbered Eleven hundred and thirty-two, Thirteen hundred and seventy-three, and Senate Document Numbered Eight hundred and fifty-one, namely:

Payment.

Under War Department, twenty-five thousand five hundred and Classification. sixty-two dollars and eighty-five cents;

Under Navy Department, two hundred and twenty-nine thousand two hundred and nine dollars and eighty-nine cents;
Under Post Office Department, four thousand three hundred and ten dollars and fourteen cents;

Under Department of Justice, seven hundred and sixty-five dollars ;

Under Department of Commerce and Labor, four thousand eight hundred and forty dollars ;

Under Department of Agriculture, one hundred and twenty-five dollars; in all, two hundred and sixty-four thousand eight hundred and twelve dollars and eighty-eight cents: Provided, That none of the
judgments herein provided for shall be paid until the right of appeal shall have expired.

Proviso. Appeal.

1320

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911.

Judgments, Indian depredation claims.

JUDGMENTS IN INDIAN DEPREDATION CLAIMS.

Payment.
Deductions. Vol. 26, p. 853.

For payment of judgments rendered by the Court of Claims in Indian depredation cases, certified to Congress in House Document Numbered Thirteen hundred and seventy-one and Senate Document Numbered Eight hundred and fifty, at its present session, thirty-eight thousand five hundred and sixty-nine dollars ; said judgments to be paid after the deductions required to be made under the provisions of section six of the Act approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled " An Act to provide for the adjustment and payment of claims arising from Indian depredations," shall have been ascertained and duly certified by the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Treasury, which certification shall be made as soon as practicable after the passage of this Act, and such deductions shall

Reimbursement.
Proviso. Appeal.

be made according to the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, having due regard to the educational and other necessary requirements of the tribe or tribes affected ; and the amounts paid shall be reimbursed to the United States at such times and in such proportions as the Secretary of the Interior may decide to be for the interests of the Indian Service : Provided, That no one of said judgments provided in this paragraph shall be paid until the Attorney General shall have certified to the Secretary of the Treasury that there exists

no grounds sufficient, in his opinion, to support a motion for a new

trial or an appeal of said cause .

Claims certified by accounting officers.

SEO. 2. That for the payment of the following claims, certified to be

due by the several accounting officers of the Treasury Department

Vol. 18, p. 110.

under appropriations the balances of which have been exhausted or carried to the surplus fund under the provisions of section five of the Act of June twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, and under

appropriations heretofore treated as permanent, being for the service

Vol. 23, p. 25-1.

of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight and prior years, unless otherwise stated, and which have been certified to Congress under section two of the Act of July seventh, eighteen hundred and eightyfour, as fully set forth in House Document Numbered Thirteen hun-

dred and sixty-eight, reported to Congress at its present session, there is appropriated as follows :

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Claims allowed by For contingent expenses, Treasury Department, horses, wagons, ADuedpiatrotrmefnotr. Treasury and so forth, nineteen hundred and ten, seventeen dollars and eighty-
three cents.
For pay of assistant custodians and janitors, three hundred and eighteen dollars and seventeen cents.
For furniture and repairs of same for public buildings, four dollars and fifty cents.
For fuel, lights , and water for public buildings, two hundred and sixteen dollars and ninety-seven cents.
For heating apparatus for public buildings , one dollar and seventy cents.
For repairs and preservation of public buildings , sixty cents. For Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service, twenty-two dollars and seventy-five cents. For Quarantine Service, six hundred and forty-nine dollars and seventy cents. For collecting the revenue from customs , one dollar and sixty-three cents .
For expenses of Revenue-Cutter Service, eighty-one dollars and thirty-seven cents.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

1321

For Life-Saving Service, three thousand and ninety-two dollars and sixteen cents.
For refund of duties on anthracite coal, Act February first, nineteen hundred and nine, seven thousand six hundred and fifty-three dollars and forty-two cents.
Forpunishment for violation of internal-revenue laws, one thousand and sixty dollars.
For redemption of stamps, five thousand one hundred and seventytwo dollars and two cents.
For payment of judgments against internal-revenue officers, one hundred and eighty-three thousand two hundred and fifteen dollars and fifty-two cents.
For refunding taxes illegally collected, four hundred and sixty-two dollars and ninety-seven cents.

Vol. 35, p. 590.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE WAR DEPARTMENT.

For pay, and so forth, of the Army, two hundred and fifty-three AuCdliatiomrsfaolrlWowaerd Dbey-

thousand six hundred and fifty-nine dollars and fifty cents.

partment.

For Signal Service of the Army, one hundred and forty dollars.

For encampment and maneuvers, Organized Militia, nine hundred

and twenty-three dollars and eighty-three cents.

For subsistence of the Army, three hundred and thirty-nine dollars

and eighty cents.

For regular supplies, Quartermaster's Department, three thousand

nine hundred and ninety-three dollars and eleven cents. For incidental expenses, Quartermaster's Department, twenty-one
dollars and seven cents.

For barracks and quarters, nine hundred and thirty-four dollars and seventy-three cents.

For transportation of the Army and its supplies, ninety-six thousand nine hundred and forty-three dollars and thirty-five cents.
For clothing, and camp and garrison equipage, eighteen dollars and sixty cents.

For Medical and Hospital Department, twelve dollars . For Engineer School, Washington, District of Columbia, two hundred and eighty-two dollars and seventy-two cents.

For manufacture of arms, eight dollars and fifty-six cents. For national cemeteries, seventy dollars and ninety-seven cents. For headstones for graves of soldiers, forty-three dollars and twenty-six cents.

For bringing home remains of officers and soldiers who die abroad, ninety dollars and ninety-eight cents."
For National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, Northwestern Branch, six dollars and eighty-seven cents.
For National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, Danville Branch, eleven dollars and fifty-five cents.
For refunding to States (New York) expenses incurred in raising volunteers, seven thousand two hundred and six dollars and fiftyseven cents.
For relief of the State of Pennsylvania, Act December thirteenth,
nineteen hundred and ten, forty-one thousand eight hundred and ninety dollars and seventy-one cents.

Pennsylvania. Post,p. 1679.

1322

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Claims allowed by Auditor for Navy De-

For pay of the Navy, three thousand one hundred and thirty-three

partment.

dollars and thirty-two cents.

For pay, miscellaneous, seven hundred and eighty-two dollars and sixty-one cents.

For pay, Marine Corps, one thousand one hundred and ninety-nine dollars and seventy-two cents.

For contingent, Marine Corps, three hundred and thirty-seven dollars and sixty-seven cents.

For transportation, Bureau of Navigation, two thousand three hundred and ninety-five dollars and seventy-three cents.

For recruiting, Bureau of Navigation, seventeen dollars and fiftyfive cents.

Vol. 28, p. 962.

For gunnery exercises, Bureau of Navigation, thirty dollars , and thirty-four cents.
For outfits on first enlistment, Bureau of Navigation, seventy-five dollars and sixty-nine cents.
For maintenance of naval auxiliaries, Bureau of Navigation, fortyfour dollars and thirty-three cents.
For ordnance and ordnance stores, Bureau of Ordnance, four hundred and seventeen dollars and thirty-five cents.
For torpedo station, Bureau of Ordnance, three hundred and eleven dollars and twenty-five cents.
For equipment of vessels, Bureau of Equipment, two hundred and six dollars and thirty cents.
For coal and transportation, Bureau of Equipment, one hundred and ten dollars.
For contingent, Bureau of Equipment, twelve dollars and ten cents.
For maintenance, Bureau of Yards and Docks, seven thousand and sixty dollars and fifty-two cents.
For contingent, Bureau of Yards and Docks, two hundred dollars and fifty-four cents.
For provisions, Navy, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, three hundred and three dollars and twenty-eight cents.
For freight, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, five thousand six hundred and ninety-eight dollars and seven cents.
For contingent, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, eight dollars and sixty-one cents.
For construction and repair, Bureau of Construction and Repair, four thousand one hundred and forty-two dollars and twenty-five cents.
For steam machinery, Bureau of Steam Engineering, eight hundred and twenty-one dollars and eighty-nine cents.
For indemnity for lost clothing, sixty dollars. For indemnity for lost property, naval service, Act March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, nine hundred and fifty-eight dollars and thirty-eight cents.
For enlistment bounties to seamen, one hundred and seventy-five dollars and thirty-three cents.
For bounty for destruction of enemy's vessels, nine dollars and six cents.
For emergency fund , Navy Department, fifteen dollars and twentyseven cents.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . C. 240. 1911.

1323

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

For

traveling

expenses

of

inspectors,

Department

of the

Interior,

Claims allowed by Auditor for Interior

nineteen hundred and ten, thirty dollars and fifty-five cents.

Department.

For contingent expenses, Department of the Interior, sixty-six dollars and thirty-five cents.

For expenses of inspectors, General Land Office, six dollars.

For distributing documents, Bureau of Education, nineteen hundred and nine, twelve dollars and forty-four cents.

For repairs, Government Hospital for the Insane, nineteen hundred

and ten, eight hundred and one dollars and thirty-eight cents.

For Howard University, nineteen hundred and ten, thirty-five

dollars and thirty-seven cents.

For education of natives of Alaska, two hundred and forty-three

dollars and twenty-seven cents.

For contingent expenses, office of surveyor general of Arizona, nineteen hundred and ten, two dollars and five cents.

For contingent expenses of land offices, nineteen hundred and nine, one hundred and fifty-two dollars and seventy-three cents.
For contingent expenses of land offices, six dollars and fifty-two cents.
For expenses of hearings in land entries, nineteen hundred and nine, five hundred and sixty-nine dollars and eighty-five cents.
For protecting public lands, timber, and so forth, eighty-three dollars and thirty- three cents.

For surveying the public lands, twenty-seven thousand five hun- ` dred and fifty-five dollars and thirty-three cents.
For geological survey, sixty-nine dollars and sixty-five cents. For suppressing liquor traffic among Indians, nineteen hundred and ten, forty-nine dollars and seventy-five cents. For preventing the spread of trachoma among Indians, three hundred and three dollars and thirty cents. For Indian school buildings, one dollar and twenty-six cents. For telegraphing, transportation, and so forth, Indian supplies, nineteen hundred and ten, twenty-two thousand four hundred and eighteen dollars and sixty-one cents. For telegraphing, transportation, and so forth, Indian supplies, nineteen hundred and nine, three thousand three hundred and two dollars and twenty-six cents. For transportation of Indian supplies, one hundred and seven dollars and eighteen cents.

For contingencies, Indian Department, forty-nine dollars and fortyeight cents.
For Indian school, Riverside, California, water system, eightythree dollars and eighty-six cents.
For funeral and transportation expenses of certain Bois Fort Indians, Minnesota, seven cents.

For support of Sioux of different tribes, subsistence and civilization, two hundred and thirty-six dollars and one cent.
For support of confederated bands of Utes, employees, and so forth, Utah, thirty-four dollars.

For support of Nez Perces, Joseph's band, Washington, nineteen
hundred and eleven, one hundred and forty-five dollars and thirtynine cents.

For support of Chippewas of Lake Superior, Wisconsin, nineteen hundred and ten, one hundred and. twenty-five dollars and twentyseven cents.

1324

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 2911.

For Indian School, Shoshone Reservation, Wyoming, nineteen hundred and ten, two hundred and thirty-nine dollars and thirty-nine cents .
For support of Shoshones in Wyoming, nineteen hundred and ten, one hundred and ninety-five dollars and nineteen cents.
For Army pensions, eighty-four dollars.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE STATE AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS.

Claims allowed by AuditorforState, etc.,

For public printing and binding, thirty-six dollars.

Departments.

For contingent expenses, Library of Congress, eight dollars and

twelve cents.

For salaries, secretaries of embassies and legations, one dollar

and twenty-one cents. For transportation of diplomatic and consular officers, nineteen
hundred and nine, eight hundred and fifty-one dollars and thirty cents .

For contingent expenses, foreign missions, five hundred and twenty-five dollars and thirty cents.

For salaries, Consular Service, seventy-seven dollars and seventyeight cents.
For allowance for clerks at consulates, sixty cents. For contingent expenses, United States consulates, thirty cents. For eradicating cattle ticks, Bureau of Animal Industry, twelve dollars and two cents.

For general expenses, Bureau of Plant Industry, six dollars and twelve cents.

For purchase and distribution of valuable seeds, five hundred and seventy-eight dollars and fifteen cents.

For botanical investigations and experiments, ninety cents. For cotton-boll weevil investigations, Bureau of Plant Industry, twenty-three dollars and forty-four cents. For general expenses, Forest Service, two hundred and eighty-eight dollars and ninety-six cents. For administration, and so forth, of the national forests, thirtythree dollars.

For laboratory, Department of Agriculture, seventy-six dollars and ninety-two cents.
For experiments in the manufacture of sugar, five dollars. For publications, Department of Agriculture, forty-five cents. For collecting agricultural statistics, two dollars and eighty-five cents .

For general expenses, Weather Bureau, forty-one dollars and sixtyfour cents.

For enforcement of the Chinese-exclusion Act, one hundred and fifty-five dollars.
For naturalization of aliens, fifty-six cents. For general expenses, Coast and Geodetic Survey, eight dollars and twenty cents. For supplies of lighthouses, five hundred and forty-nine dollars and twenty-one cents. For expenses of buoyage, fifty-eight dollars and one cent. For expenses of light vessels, four dollars and sixty-five cents. For lighting of rivers, forty-one cents. For miscellaneous expenses, Bureau of Fisheries, twenty-six doHars and forty-eight cents. For salaries, fees, and expenses of marshals, United States courts, seventy-six dollars and fifty cents. For fees of clerks, United States courts, nineteen hundred and ten, five thousand five hundred and eighteen dollars and fourteen cents.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 240. 1911 .

1325

For fees of commissioners, United States courts, five hundred and sixty-one dollars and seventy-five cents.
For fees of witnesses, United States courts, forty-six dollars and eighty-five cents.
For support of prisoners, United States courts, eight hundred and sixty-one dollars and seventy-five cents.
For supplies for United States courts, five dollars and four cents. For miscellaneous expenses, United States courts, two hundred and forty-three dollars and seventy-five cents.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT.

For inland mail transportation: Star, two hundred and fifteen Claims allowed by

dollars and forty-seven cents ; mail messenger, four dollars and Department. twelve cents ; railroad, two thousand two hundred and forty-seven dollars and ninety cents.
For payment of rewards, one thousand two hundred dollars.

For Rural Free-Delivery Service, one hundred and four dollars and

fifty-eight cents.

For shipment of supplies, one dollar and seventy-one cents.

For indemnities for losses by registered mail, two hundred and

fifty-seven dollars and twelve cents.

For indemnities for losses by registered mail, international, one

hundred and thirty-seven dollars and twelve cents.

For compensation to postmasters, one hundred and eighty-one dollars and fifty-eight cents.

For Special-Delivery Service, fees to messengers, two dollars.

For clerk hire, first and second class offices, one hundred and nine-

teen dollars and forty-five cents.

For clerk hire, third-class post offices, seventy-two dollars.

For rent, light, and fuel, one hundred and eight dollars.

For canceling machines, nineteen dollars and ninety-five cents. For shipment of supplies, one dollar and eight cents.

For Rural Free-Delivery Service, supplies, two dollars and fifty-

five cents.

SEO. 3.

That for the payment of the

claims following claims, certified to certified byaccount-

be due by the several accounting officers of the Treasury Department ing officers. under appropriations the balances of which have been exhausted or carried to the surplus fund under the provisions of section five of the Vol. 18, p.110.

Act of June twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, and under appropriations heretofore treated as permanent, being for the service of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eight and prior years,

unless otherwise stated, and which have been certified to Congress under section two of the Act of July seventh, eighteen hundred and Vol. 23, p.254.

eighty-four, as fully set forth in Senate Document Numbered Eight hundred and fifty-three, reported to Congress at its present session,

there is appropriated as follows :

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

For contingent expenses, Treasury Department, horses, and Claims allowed by

wagons, nineteen hundred and ten, one dollar and fifty cents; For pay of assistant custodians and janitors, one dollar;

Department.

For fuel, lights, and water fonpublic buildings, thirty-eight dollars

and twenty-five cents;

For Quarantine Service, one hundred and ninety-five dollars and

ninety-ono cents;

1326

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 240. 1911 .

For expenses of Revenue-Cutter Service, twenty-two dollars and fifteen cents ;
For payment of judgments against internal-revenue officers, six thousand seven hundred and seven dollars and seventy-three cents.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE WAR DEPARTMENT.

Claims allowed by

Auditor for War De- For pay ofthe Army, seventy-nine thousand six hundred and thirty-

partment.

five dollars and two cents ;

For subsistence of the Army, twenty-seven dollars and forty-seven cents ;

For transportation of the Army and its supplies, twelve thousand

eight hundred and seventy-one dollars and seventy cents ;

For headstones for graves of soldiers, four dollars and sixty-five cents ;

For pay of volunteers, Mexican War, two dollars and sixty-five cents.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Claims allowed by

Auditor for Navy De- For pay of the Navy, five hundred and ninety-six dollars and forty-

partment.

four cents ;

For pay, miscellaneous, fifteen dollars ;

For pay, Marine Corps, one hundred and sixty-one dollars and twenty-three cents;
For pay, Naval Academy, one thousand and twenty-one dollars and forty-four cents;
For ordnance and ordnance stores, Bureau of Ordnance, fourteen dollars and forty cents ;

For torpedo station, Bureau of Ordnance, fifty-seven dollars and eighty-four cents ;
For maintenance, Bureau of Yards and Docks, one thousand five hundred dollars and thirty-eight cents ;

For provisions, Navy, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, seventytwo dollars ;

For freight, Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, ninety-two dollars and fifty-seven cents ;
For steam machinery, Bureau of Steam Engineering, seven dollars and four cents ;

Vol. 28, p. 962.

For construction and repair, Bureau of Construction and Repair, eighty-six dollars ;
For indemnity for lost property, naval service, Act of March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, sixty-eight dollars and two cents;
For enlistment bounties to seamen, three hundred dollars.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

Claims allowed by

Auditor for Interior For contingent expenses of land offices, nineteen hundred and nine,

Department.

nine dollars and thirty-six cents;

For surveying the public lands, forty-three thousand four hundred and forty dollars ;

For appraisal and sale of abandoned military reservations, two

hundred and thirty-five dollars and eighteen cents ;

For telegraphing, transportation, Indian supplies, nineteen hundred and ten, five hundred and sixty-nine dollars and eighty-six cents;
For telegraphing, transportation, Indian supplies, nineteen hundred and nine, one hundred and nine dollars and seventy-four cents ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 240, 241. 1911 .

1327

For incidentals in Montana, nineteen hundred and nine, four dollars
and twenty cents; For support of Sioux of different tribes, subsistence and civilization,
ten dollars and twenty-seven cents ; For incidentals in Utah, nineteen hundred and ten, twenty-eight
dollars and two cents; For support of Chippewas of Lake Superior, Wisconsin, nineteen
hundred and ten, twenty-seven dollars ; For indemnity to certain Chickasaw Indians for losses, treaty June
twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty-five, twelve thousand two
hundred and eighty dollars.

VCohli.c1k1a,spa.w6c11l.aims.

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE STATE AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS.

For increase, Library of Congress, twenty-two dollars and fifty-four AucdliatiomrsfoarlSltaotwee,detbc.y,

cents ;

Departments.

For botanical investigations and experiments, fifty cents ; For general expenses, Forest Service, twenty-four dollars and thirty

cents ;

For general expenses, Weather Bureau, two dollars and forty-four cents;

For fees of clerks, United States courts, nineteen hundred and ten,

two thousand four hundred and seventy-four dollars and eighty-three

cents ; For prosecution of Indians in Arizona, Act March fourth, nineteen
hundred and seven, two hundred and ninety-three dollars and five cents.

IVnodli.a2n8s, pi.n5A9r9i. zona,

CLAIMS ALLOWED BY THE AUDITOR FOR THE POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT..

Claims allowed by

For supplies, City Free Delivery Service, eight dollars and twenty AuditorforPost Office

cents ;

Department.

For Rural Free Delivery Service, incidental expenses, seven dollars and twenty-five cents ;

For indemnities for losses by registered mail, fifteen dollars;

For transportation of foreign mails (transportation), three hundred and two dollars and twenty-two cents.

For transportation of foreign mails (indemnities for loss by regis-

tered mail, international), eleven dollars and ninety-three cents ;

For compensation to postmasters, thirty-two dollars and eightythree cents.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

1

CHAP. 241.-An Act Making appropriations for the service of the Post Office
Department for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, and for other purposes.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 31539.]
(Public, No. 481.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PostalserviceapproStates of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums be, priations. and they are hereby, appropriated for the service of the Post Office Vol. 5, p. 80.
Department, in conformity with the Act of July second, eighteen
hundred and thirty-six, as follows:

OFFICE OF THE POSTMASTER GENERAL.

PostmasterGeneral.

For advertising for the Post Office Department and postal service, Advertising. one thousand five hundred dollars.

1328

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

Repair shops and supplies division.

For rent of suitable buildings for the use of the Post Office Depart-

ment, including the mail-bag repair shop , lock repair shop, and the

Power, etc.

Division of Supplies, thirty-four thousand four hundred dollars.
For gas, electric power and light, and the repair of machinery, five thousand nine hundred dollars.

Post-office inspectors.

FOR SALARIES OF POST-OFFICE INSPECTORS : For salaries of fifteen

Salaries.

inspectors in charge of divisions, at three thousand dollars each ;

ten inspectors, at two thousand four hundred dollars each; fifteen inspectors, at two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars each ; twenty-six inspectors, at two thousand one hundred dollars each;

fifteen inspectors, at two thousand dollars each; twenty-nine inspectors, at one thousand nine hundred dollars each; sixty-five inspectors, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; seventy-five inspectors,

at one thousand seven hundred dollars each; seventy-five inspectors, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; and sixty-five inspectors,

at one thousand five hundred dollars each; in all, seven hundred and

Per diem.

four thousand four hundred and fifty dollars. For per diem allowance of inspectors in the field while actually

Provisos.
Temporary ances.

traveling on official business away from their home, their official domicile, and their headquarters, at a rate to be fixed by the Postmaster General, not to exceed three dollars per day, two hundred and eighty-seven thousand four hundred dollars: Provided, That the
allow- Postmaster General may, in his discretion, allow inspectors per diem

while temporarily located at any place on business away from their home, or their designated domicile, for a period not exceeding twenty

Limit.

consecutive days at any one place, and make rules and regulations governing the foregoing provisions relating to per diem : And pro-

vided further, That no per diem shall be paid to inspectors receiving

annual salaries of two thousand dollars or more, except the twenty-

six inspectors receiving two thousand one hundred dollars each.

Clerks, etc., division

headquarters.

For compensation to clerks at division headquarters, fifteen, at one

thousand six hundred dollars each ; eleven, at one thousand four hun-

dred dollars each ; twenty-seven, at one thousand two hundred dol-

lars each ; eight, at one thousand one hundred dollars each; thirteen,

at one thousand dollars each ; and six, at nine hundred dollars each;

in all, ninety-nine thousand dollars.

Traveling, etc., expenses.

For traveling expenses of inspectors without per diem allowance, in-

spectors in-charge, and the Chief Post Office Inspector, and expenses

incurred by inspectors not covered by per diem allowance, unusual

and extraordinary expenses necessarily incurred for maintenance by

inspectors over and above per diem allowance while traveling on official business in the District of Alaska, and for the traveling expenses

of two clerks performing stenographic and clerical assistance to post-

Livery hire.

office inspectors in the investigation of important fraud cases, thirtyone thousand four hundred dollars.
For livery hire incurred by inspectors not covered by their per diem allowance, including livery hire in connection with the installa-

tion and inspection of rural routes, forty-five thousand dollars.

Labor- saving devices.

For expenses incident to the investigation and testing of mechani-

Miscellaneous. Rewards, etc.

cal and labor-saving devices, under the direction of the Postmaster General, for use in the postal service, ten thousand dollars.
For necessary miscellaneous expenses at division headquarters, five thousand dollars.
For payment of rewards for the detection, arrest, and conviction

of post-office burglars, robbers, and highway mail robbers, twenty-

two thousand five hundred and seventy-three dollars, of which sum

seven thousand five hundred and seventy-three dollars shall be im-

Proviso.

mediately available : Provided, That of the amount herein appro-

tiSoenc. uring informa- priated not to exceed five thousand dollars may be expended, in the

discretion of the Postmaster General, for tho purpose of securing

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

1329

information concerning violations of the postal laws and for services and information looking toward the apprehension of criminals.
For travel and miscellaneous expenses in the postal service, office of the Postmaster General, one thousand dollars.

Travel, etc.

OFFICE OF THE FIRST ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL.

First Assistant Postmaster General.

For compensation to postmasters, twenty-nine million three hun- Postmasters. Increase at Saint
dred thousand dollars. That hereafter the compensation paid to Louis. · postmaster at Saint Louis, Missouri, shall be eight thousand dollars

per annum . For compensation to assistant postmasters at first and second class teArsss. istant postmas-
post offices, four, at not exceeding four thousand dollars each ; thirty-

eight, at not exceeding three thousand dollars each; six, at not

exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars each ; six, at not exceeding two thousand dollars each; sixteen, at not exceeding one thousand nine hundred dollars each; forty, at not exceeding one thousand eight hundred dollars each; seventy-five, at not exceeding one thousand seven hundred dollars each; one hundred and twenty-five, at not exceeding one thousand six hundred dollars each ; one hundred and ninety, at not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars each ;

one hundred and forty, at not exceeding one thousand four hundred dollars each; three hundred and fifty, at not exceeding one thousand three hundred dollars each; four hundred and fifty, at not exceeding one thousand two hundred dollars each; three hundred, at not exceed-

ing one thousand one hundred dollars each; two hundred and fifty, at not exceeding one thousand dollars each ; two hundred and twentyfive, at not exceeding nine hundred dollars each; one hundred and twenty-five, at not exceeding eight hundred dollars each; and one

hundred, at not exceeding seven hundred dollars each; in all, two million eight hundred thousand dollars.

And the appointment and assignment of assistant postmasters resAtprpioctiendt.ments, etc., hereunder shall be so made during the fiscal year as not to involve a
greater aggregate expenditure than this sum".

For compensation to clerks and employees at first and second class clSeurkpse,reitcn.tendents, post offices:

Superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, and superintendents of registry, sixteen, at not exceeding three thousand two hundred dollars each;
Auditors, two, at not exceeding three thousand dollars ;

At $3,200. At $3,000.

Superintendents of delivery and superintendents of mails, twentyfour, at not exceeding two thousand seven hundred dollars each;
Cashiers, superintendents of delivery, and superintendents of mails, eighteen, at not exceeding two thousand six hundred dollars each ;

At $2,600.

Cashiers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, and At $2,500. superintendents of stations, sixteen, at not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars each ;

Assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, bookkeepers, cashiers, finance clerks, private secretaries, supérintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, and superintendents of registry, thirty, at not exceeding two thousand four hundred dollars each;
Assistant superintendents of mails, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, finance clerks, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, and superintendents of stations, nineteen, at not exceeding two thousand two hundred dollars each ;
Cashiers, chief stamp clerks, night superintendents, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of

At $2,400. At $2,200. At $2,100 .

1330 At $2,000. At $1,800. At $1,700. At $1,600. At $1,500. At $1,400.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911.
inquiry, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, and superintendents of registry, thirty-six, at not exceeding two thousand one hundred dollars each ;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, bookkeepers, cashiers, examiners of stations, finance clerks, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of secondclass matter, superintendents of inquiry, and superintendents of stations, one hundred and ten, at not exceeding two thousand dollars each;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, examiners of stations, finance clerks, private secretaries, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, sixty-six, at not exceeding one thousand eight hundred dollars each ;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, examiners of stations, finance clerks, private secretaries, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, one hundred and twenty-eight, at not exceeding one thousand seven hundred dollars each;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, examiners of stations, finance clerks, foremen of crews, private secretaries, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, one hundred and twenty-five, at not exceeding one, thousand six hundred dollars each ;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, examiners of stations, finance clerks, foremen of crews, private secretaries, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, one hundred and ninety, at not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars each ;
Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks, special clerks, examiners of stations, finance clerks, foremen of crews, private secretaries, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

1331

matter, and superintendents of stations, four hundred and sixty-six, at not exceeding one thousand four hundred dollars each;

Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, cashiers, chief mailing clerks, chief stamp clerks,

At $1,300.

examiners of stations, finance clerks, foremen of crews, private secre taries, special clerks, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of delivery, superintendents of mails, superintendents of money order, superintendents of registry, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, twelve hundred and sixteen, at not exceeding one thousand three hundred dollars each;

Assistant cashiers, assistant superintendents of delivery, assistant superintendents of mails, assistant superintendents of money order, assistant superintendents of registry, assistant superintendents of stations, bookkeepers, chief stamp clerks, clerks, finance clerks, foremen of crews, private secretaries, stenographers, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of second-class matter, and superintendents of stations, twelve thousand, at not exceeding one thousand two hundred dollars each;

At 81,200.

Assistant superintendents of stations, clerks, private secretaries, stenographers, superintendents of carriers, superintendents of secondclass matter, and superintendents of stations, seven thousand four hundred, at not exceeding one thousand one hundred dollars each;
Assistant superintendents of stations, clerks, clerks in charge of stations, private secretaries, stenographers, superintendents of carriers, and superintendents of second-class matter, five thousand two hundred, at not exceeding one thousand dollars each;
Clerks, clerks in charge of stations, private secretaries, and stenographers, two thousand nine hundred, at not exceeding nine hundred dollars each;

At $1,100 At $1,000. At $900.

Clerks, and clerks in charge of stations, two thousand three hun- At $800.

dred and fifty, at not exceeding eight hundred dollars each ;

Clerks, and clerks in charge ofstations, two thousand, at not exceed ing six hundred dollars each ;
Substitutes for clerks and employees absent without pay;

At $600. Substitutes.

In all, thirty-five million nine hundred thousand dollars;

For compensation to printers, mechanics, and skilled laborers, ten, icsP,rietnct.ers, mechanat one thousand two hundred dollars each; four, at one thousand one

hundred dollars each; three, at one thousand dollars each ; and

twenty-eight, at nine hundred dollars each ; in all, forty-four thousand six hundred dollars.

For compensation to watchmen, messengers, and laborers, one hun- geWrsa,tectch.men, messendred, at eight hundred dollars each; seven hundred, at seven hundred

dollars each; and six hundred, at six hundred dollars each; in all, nine hundred thousand dollars. And the appointment and assignment of watchmen, messengers, and laborers hereunder shall be so made during the fiscal year as not to involve a greater aggregate
expenditure than this sum. For compensation to clerks in charge of contract stations, at a rate clCeornkts.ract station
above three hundred dollars each, and not to exceed one thousand dollars each, three hundred and thirty thousand dollars.
For compensation to clerks in charge of contract stations, at a rate not to exceed three hundred dollars each, six hundred thousand dollars.

For compensation to substitutes for clerks and employees at first.clSearkbssotnilteuatve.s for

and second class post offices on vacation, one hundred and twenty-

five thousand dollars.

?

For temporary and auxiliary clerk hire at first and second class auTxielmiaproy rclaerrkys. and post offices and temporary and auxiliary clerk hire at summer and

winter resort post offices, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

1332

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

Separating mails. For separating mails at third and fourth class post offices, seven

hundred thousand dollars.

Unusual conditions. For unusual conditions at post offices, one hundred and forty Proviso.

Limitation.

thousand dollars : Provided, That the expenditure of so much thereof

as may be found necessary to carry out the provisions hereinafter set

forth, but not in the aggregate to exceed fifty-five thousand dollars ,

atAelmy oavuainltabliem. medi- of which amount fifteen thousand dollars is made immediately

available, is limited as follows :

Clerks and carriers in certain localities.

Whenever a postmaster in any locality with a population of not

more than twenty thousand inhabitants certifies to the department

that, owing to unusual conditions in his community, he is unable to

secure the services of efficient employees otherwise, the Postmaster General having ascertained the truth of the certification may authorize, in his discretion, the appointment of clerks and letter carriers for that office at such higher rates of compensation, within the present recognized grades, and in the District of Alaska, at higher salaries than one thousand two hundred dollars, as may be necessary in order

to insure a proper conduct of the postal business, but not to exceed

in the aggregate the sum annually appropriated for said purposes,

Report.

and in all such cases their salaries shall be paid from the appropriation for unusual conditions, and the Postmaster General shall make report

Clerks, offices.

to Congress annually of the places where and the amounts so expended. third-class For allowance to third-class post offices to cover the cost of clerical
services in offices where the salaries of the postmasters range from one

thousand dollars to one thousand five hundred dollars , five hundred

Proviso. Allotments

not ex-

and

eighty

thousand

dollars :

Provided,

That

no

allowance

in

excess

ceeding $300.

of two hundred dollars shall be made where the salary of the post-

master is one thousand dollars, one thousand one hundred dollars, or

one thousand two hundred dollars ; nor in excess of three hundred

dollars where the salary of the postmaster is one thousand three hundred dollars, one thousand four hundred dollars, or one thousand five hundred dollars.

For allowance to third-class post offices to cover the cost of clerical

services in offices where the salaries of the postmasters range from

onc thousand six hundred dollars to one thousand nine hundred dol-

Proviso. Allotments

not ex-

lars,

seven

hundred

and

fifty

thousand

dollars :

Provided,

That

no

ceeding 8500.

allowance in excess of four hundred dollars shall be made where the

salary of the postmaster is one thousand six hundred dollars or one

thousand seven hundred dollars, nor in excess of five hundred dollars

where the salary of the postmaster is one thousand eight hundred dollars or one thousand nine hundred dollars.

Rent, light,and fuel. For rent, light, and fuel for first, second, and third class post offices,

Proviso. Ten-year leases.

four million four hundred thousand dollars, of which not exceeding fifty thousand dollars shall be immediately available : Provided, That the Postmaster General may, in the disbursement of the appropria-

Limit.

tion for such purposes, apply a part thereof to the purpose of leasing premises for the use of post offices of the first, second, and third
classes at a reasonable annual rental, to be paid quarterly, for a term not exceeding ten years ; and that there shall not be allowed for the
use of any third-class post office for rent a sum in excess of five hundred dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars for fuel and light in

Miscellancois.

any one year. For miscellaneous items necessary and incidental to post offices of
the first and second class, three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars, of which sum twenty-five thousand dollars may be used for

the purchase of post-office equipment.

Canceling machines. Purchase, etc.

For rental and purchase of canceling machines, including cost of

powerin rented buildings, motors, repairs to motors, and miscellaneous

expenses of installation and operation, three hundred and ten thou-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

1333

sand dollars, thirty-five thousand dollars of which sum may be expended in the purchase of such machines: Provided, That the rental paid for any canceling machine shall not exceed three hundred dollars per annum, including repairs on said machines, and that all contracts

Proviso. Maximum rent,etc.

entered into shall be let after having advertised for bids and shall be

awarded on the basis of cheapness and efficiency. For the purchase, repair, and maintenance of mechanical and labor- viLcaesb.or-saving de-
saving devices, fifty thousand dollars.

For pay of letter carriers at offices already established, including CLietytedreclairvreireyr.s. substitutes for carriers absent without pay, city delivery service, thirty-two million one hundred and eighty thousand dollars: Pro- PWreoerkisloys. work limvided, That no part of this appropriation shall be used to pay letter ited.

carriers who are required or permitted to work for more than fortyeight hours in the six working days of a week: Provided further, That this limitation shall not apply to service performed during the first five and the last fifteen days of the calendar year.

Holidays exception.

For pay of substitutes for letter carriers absent with pay, and of auxiliary and temporary letter carriers at offices where city delivery is already established , one million one hundred thousand dollars.
For pay of letter carriers, substitute and auxiliary letter carriers at offices where city delivery service is established, during the year, seventy-five thousand dollars.

Substitutes. New offices.

For horse-hire allowance and the rental of vehicles, nine hundred Horse hire, etc. and twenty-five thousand dollars.

For car fare and bicycle allowance, four hundred and seventy-five Carfareandbicycles.

thousand dollars.

For street-car collection service, ten thousand dollars.

Street-car collections.

For Detroit River postal service, six thousand five hundred dollars. icDee. troit River servThat hereafter the Postmaster General may, in his discretion, enter Four-year contracts

into contracts for a period of not exceeding four years for the rental ianutghmoarcihzeidnefsor, ectacn.cel

of canceling machines, for the hire of the equipages for the City

Delivery Service, for the collection service by means of boxes attached to street cars, and for the steamboat and other equipment necessary

forFtohreiDnectirdoeinttaRliveexrpepnossetsalosfertvhieceC. ity Delivery Service, including Incidentals.

freight and drayage on equipment, furniture, and supplies, and erecting, painting, and repairing letter and package boxes and posts, repairing clocks and other equipment, and for the purchase of time recorders and maps, thirty-five thousand dollars.
For car fare for special-delivery messengers in emergency cases, thirteen thousand dollars.
For fees to special-delivery messengers, one million four hundred thousand dollars .
For travel and miscellaneous expenses in the postal service, office of the First Assistant Postmaster General, one thousand dollars.

Special delivery Car fares.
Fees.
Travel etc.

OFFICE OF THE SECOND ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL.

Second Assistant Postmaster General.

Transportation by For inland transportation by star routes in Alaska, two hundred star routes in Alaska.

and fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That out of this appropriation PErmoevrisgoe.ncy service

the Postmaster General is authorized to provide difficult or emer-

gency mail service in Alaska, including the establishment and equip-

ment of relay stations, in such manner as he may think advisable

without advertising therefor.

Steamboat etc.

For inland transportation by steamboat or other power-boat routes.

routes, seven hundred and ninety thousand nine hundred dollars.

For mail messenger service, one million six hundred and five Messenger service.

thousand dollars.

For the transmission of mail by pneumatic tubes or other similar etPc.neumatic tuber devices, nine hundred and sixty-six thousand eight hundred dollars.

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-86

1334

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.241. 1911.

Wagon service.

For regulation, screen, or other wagon service, one million eight

Mail bags, etc.

hundred and sixty-two thousand five hundred dollars. For mail bags, metal for mail-bag attachments, cord fasteners,

label cases, and material necessary for manufacture and repairing of

equipment, and for incidental expenses pertaining thereto, two

Proviso.

hundred and eighty-five thousand dollars : Provided, That out of this

Equipment for

Alaska and Island pos- appropriation the Postmaster General is authorized to use so much

sessions.

of the sum, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as may be deemed

necessary for the purchase of material and the manufacture in the

mail-bag repair shop of such small quantities of distinctive equipment as may be required by other executive departments, and for service

in Alaska, Porto Rico, Philippine Islands, Hawaii, or other island

possessions, and for such special equipment for testing and for other

purposes in connection with the reduction in the weight of mail

equipment. labBoarg. repair shops, For compensation to labor employed in the mail-bag repair shop at

Washington, District of Columbia, and Chicago, Illinois, one hundred

and ten thousand dollars.

Equipment shop, Chicago.

For rent, light, fuel, electric power, and incidental expenses per-

taining to the maintenance of a subworkshop for the repair of mail

Locks, keys, etc.

equipment at Chicago, Illinois, three thousand dollars. For mail locks and keys, chains, tools, machinery, and material

necessary for manufacturing and repairing same, and for incidental

expenses pertaining thereto; also for making in the mail-lock repair

shop such metal attachments as may be needed for use in the manu-

facture and repair of mail equipment, twelve thousand dollars.

Lock repair shop, Jabor.

For compensation to labor employed in the mail-lock repair shop at

Washington, District of Columbia, thirty-six thousand five hundred

dollars .

Railroad routes.

For inland transportation by railroad routes, fifty million ninety-

two thousand two hundred dollars, of which the sum of one million

one hundred and twenty-one thousand two hundred dollars shall be

Provisos.

immediately available : Provided, That out of the appropriation for

tatEixopnesn. ses ofcompu- inland mail transportation the Postmaster General is authorized here-

after to pay rental if necessary in Washington, District of Columbia,

and compensation to tabulators and clerks employed in connection

with the weighings for assistance in completing computations, in

connection with the expenses of taking the weights of mails on rail-
maStetceorn. d-class mail road routes, as provided by law: Provided, That the President shall Commission author- appoint three competent and impartial persons, one of whom may be

iczoesdt otfoheaxnadmliineg,. etc., a judicial or other officer of the United States and the other two of

Post, p. 1458.

whom shall hold no office, and no one of whom shall be connected

with the Post Office Department or have any interest in any business

directly or indirectly affected by the publishing of magazines or news-

papers using the mails of the United States, to examine the reports of

the Post Office Department and any of its officers, agents, or employ-

ees, and the existing evidence taken in respect to the cost to the Government of the transportation and handling of all classes of second-class mail matter which may be submitted to them, and such evidence as may be presented to them by persons having an interest in the rates to be fixed for second-class mail matter, to make a finding of what the cost of transporting and handling different classes of such second-class mail matter is to the Government and what in their

judgment should be the rate for the different classes of second-class postal matter, in order to meet and reimburse the Government for the
expense to which it is put in the transportation and handling of such matter, and on or before December first, nineteen hundred and eleven,

Expenses.

to make report of their proceedings and findings to the President for transmission to Congress: Provided, That the sum of fifty thousand

dollars is hereby appropriated to pay the expenses of such commission,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911.

1335

including compensation to the members thereof, to the necessary secretaries, stenographers and other incidental expenses, and such compensation may be awarded to the Federal official member of the

commission, anything in the existing law to the contrary notwith-
standing. For tabulating and arranging information relative to the operation, tiToanbouflraatiilnrgoaidnsfcoarrmray--

receipts, and expenditures of railroad companies carrying the mails, ingmails. including rental of quarters in Washington, District of Columbia, ten

thousand dollars, which shall be immediately available.
For pay of freight or expressage on postal cards, stamped envelopes, caFrrdesi, gethct. on postal newspaper wrappers, and empty mail bags, four hundred and twenty-

five thousand dollars, of which the sum of forty-eight thousand two hundred dollars shall be immediately available.

And the Postmaster General in cases of emergency, between No- baRgestiunrmnaiolfs ineemmpetry-

vember fifteenth and January fifteenth of any year, may hereafter gency cases. return to the mails empty mail bags theretofore withdrawn therefrom as required by law, and for such times may pay for their railroad poPrataytmieonn.t for trans-

transportation out of the appropriation for inland transportation by railroad routes at not exceeding the rate per pound per mile as shown by the last adjustment for mail service on the route over which they

may be carried, and pay for necessary cartage out of the appropriation for freight or expressage.
For railway post-office car service, five million and ten thousand ,icPe.ost-office car serv-

dollars : Provided, That no part of this amount shall be paid for the PSroouvnigdoasn. d sanitary use of any car which is not sound in material and construction, and cars required.
which is not equipped with sanitary drinking-water containers and

toilet facilities, nor unless such car is regularly and thoroughly
cleaned: Provided further, That after the first of July, nineteen wooden cars. hundred and eleven, no pay shall be allowed for the use of any

wooden full railway post-office car unless constructed substantially

in accordance with the most approved plans and specifications of

the Post Office Department for such type of cars, nor for any wooden

full

railway

post-office

car

run

in

any

train

between

adjoining

steel

Cars after.

required

here-

cars or between the engine and a steel car adjoining, and that here-

after additional cars accepted for this service shall be of steel, or with

steel underframe, if used in a train in which a majority of the cars Steel construction are of like construction: Providedfurther, That after the first of July, required after July 1,

nineteen hundred and sixteen, the Postmaster General shall not 1916,

approve or allow to be used or pay for any full railway post-office car not constructed of steel or with steel underframe, if such post-office

car is used in a train in which a majority of the cars are of steel or of steel underframe construction.

RAILWAY MAIL SERVICE: For fourteen division superintendents , at ,icRe.ailway Mail Servthree thousand dollars each ; four assistant superintendents, at two Division officers, thousand two hundred dollars each ; fourteen assistant division super- clerks, etc. intendents, at two thousand dollars each ; one hundred and forty- one chief clerks, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; two hundred and ninety-five clerks, class six, at not exceeding one thousand six hundred dollars each ; one thousand four hundred and ninety-one clerks, class five, at not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars each ; five hundred and sixty-three clerks, class five, at not exceeding one thousand four hundred dollars each ; two thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven clerks, class four, at not exceeding one thousand three hundred dollars each; two thousand two hundred and fifty-one clerks, class four, at not exceeding one thousand two hundred dollars each; six thousand two hundred and sixty-one clerks, class three, at not exceeding one thousand one hundred dollars each; two thousand six hundred and two clerks, class two, at not exceeding one thousand dollars each; six hundred clerks, class one, at not exceeding nine hundred dollars each ; six hundred clerks, class one, at not exceeding eight

1336

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 241.

hundred dollars each ; in all, twenty million five hundred and twelve

thousand nine hundred dollars.

Travel allowances

to clerks on duty over That hereafter in addition to the salaries by law provided the Post-

ten hours.

master General is hereby authorized to make travel allowances, not

exceeding in the aggregate the sum annually appropriated, to railway postal clerks assigned to duty in railway post- office cars for actual

expenses incurred by them while on duty, after ten hours from the

time of beginning their initial run, under such regulations as he may

prescribe, and in no case shall such an allowance exceed one dollar

Amount.

per day. For travel allowances to railway postal clerks, one million seven

hundred and fifty dollars. Emergency service. For temporary clerk hire in classes one and two for emergency

service, sixty thousand dollars.

Leaves to railway postal clerks, etc.

That the Postmaster General may allow railway postal clerks whose

duties require them to work six days or more a week throughout the

year and the employees of the mail-lock and mail-bag repair shops

an annual vacation of thirty days with pay.

Substitutes.

For substitutes for clerks on vacation, sixty-eight thousand dollars.

Acting clerks. Allowance in case

For acting clerks, in place of clerks or substitutes injured while on

of death.

duty, and to enable the Postmaster General to pay the sum of two

thousand dollars, which shall be exempt from payment of debts of the

deceased, to the legal representatives of any railway postal clerk or

substitute railway postal clerk who shall be killed while on duty, or

who, being injured while on duty, shall die within one year there-

after as the result of such injury, one hundred and twenty thousand dollars. Traveling expenses. For actual and necessary expenses, division superintendents, assist-

ant division superintendents, and chief clerks, Railway Mail Service, and railway postal clerks, while actually traveling on business of the

Miscellaneous.

Post Office Department and away from their several designated headquarters, twenty-seven thousand dollars.
For rent, light, fuel, telegraph, and miscellaneous office expenses,

schedules of mail trains, telephone service, and badges for railway

postal clerks, seventy-five thousand dollars, including rental of offices

for division headquarters, Railway Mail Service, in Washington, Dis-

trict of Columbia.

Per diem, etc., as sistant superintend-

For per diem allowance of assistant superintendents while actually

ents.

traveling on official business away from their home, their official

domicile, and their headquarters, at a rate to be fixed by the Post-

master General, not to exceed three dollars per day, four thousand

nine hundred and eighty dollars, and for their necessary official

expenses not covered by their per diem allowance, not exceeding six

hundred dollars ; in all, five thousand five hundred and eighty dollars.

Electric and cable For inland transportation of mail by electric and cable cars, seven

car service.

Provisos.

hundred and twenty-five thousand five hundred dollars : Provided,

Compensation.

That the rate of compensation to be paid per mile shall not exceed the

rate now paid to companies performing such service, except that the

Postmaster General, in cases where the quantity of mail is large and

the number of exchange points numerous, may, in his discretion,

authorize payment for closed-pouch service at a rate per mile not to

exceed one-third above the rate per mile now paid for closed-pouch

service ; and for mail cars and apartments carrying the mails, not to Outside of cities. exceed the rate of one cent per linear foot per car mile of travel : Pro-

vided further, That the rates for electric-car service on routes over twenty miles in length outside of cities shall not exceed the rates

Unusual conditions. paid for service on steam railroads : Provided, however, That not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars of the sum hereby appropriated may

be expended, in the discretion of the Postmaster General where un-

usual conditions exist or where such service will be more expeditious

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

1337

Substitution of waand efficient and at no greater cost than otherwise, and not to exceed gon service. one hundred thousand dollars of this appropriation may be expended for regulation, screen, or motor screen-wagon service which may be authorized in lieu of electric or cable car service.
For transportation of foreign mails, three million three hundred Foreign mails. Proviso.
and twenty-two thousand six hundred dollars : Provided, That the Clerks on steamPostmaster General shall be authorized to expend such sums as may ships. be necessary; not exceeding ninety-five thousand dollars, to cover
one-half of the cost of transportation, compensation, and expenses of clerks to be employed in assorting and pouching mails in transit on
steamships between the United States and other postal administra-
tions in the International Postal Union, and not exceeding eighty YoPrikeratnrdansSfaerns,FNraenwthousand dollars for transferring the foreign mail from incoming cisco.
steamships in New York Bay to the steamship and railway piers, and
for transferring the foreign mail from incoming steamships in San
Francisco Bay to the piers; also for transferring the mail from
steamships performing service under contract for transporting United States mail.
Assistant superinFor assistant superintendent, Division of Foreign Mails, with head- tendent. quarters in New York, New York, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For balances due foreign countries, seven hundred and thirty-four coBuanltarniceess. due foreign thousand eight hundred dollars, of which sum not exceeding two hundred and forty-seven thousand four hundred dollars shall be immediately available.
For travel and miscellaneous expenses in the postal service, office Travel, etc. of the Second Assistant Postmaster General, one thousand dollars.

OFFICE OF THE THIRD ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL.

Third Assistant Postmaster General.

For manufacture of adhesive postage stamps, special-delivery Stamps. stamps, books of stamps, and for coiling of stamps, seven hundred and ninety-six thousand dollars, of which the sum of eighty thousand dollars shall be immediately available.
For manufacture of stamped envelopes and newspaper wrappers, anSdtawrmappepderesn.velopes one million eight hundred and twenty-three thousand dollars, of which
the sum of four hundred thousand dollars shall be immediately available.

For pay of agent and assistants to examine and distribute stamped speDicsttiroinb.ution and inand official envelopes and newspaper wrappers, and expenses of

agency at Dayton, Ohio, including expenses attendant on inspection of manufacture of official envelopes at Cincinnati, Ohio, twenty-six thousand dollars.

For manufacture of postal cards, four hundred and fifty-one thousand dollars, of which the sum of one hundred thousand dollars shall be immediately available.
For ship, steamboat, and way letters, two hundred and fifty dollars.

Postal cards. Ship, etc., letters.

For payment of limited indemnity for the loss of pieces of domestic isItenrdeedmmnaitttyerl.ost regregistered matter, eighteen thousand dollars.

That the Postmaster General is hereby authorized to indemnify foIrnldoestmtnhiitrdyoarlfloouwrethd the senders or owners of third and fourth class. domestic registered claLsismmiatt. ter. matter lost in the mails, the indemnity, which shall be paid out of
the postal revenues, not to exceed twenty-five dollars for a single
piece of registered matter or the actual value thereof if less than Proviso.
twenty-five dollars: Provided, That no indemnity shall be paid if the Condition. loser has been otherwise reimbursed.
For payment of indemnity for the loss of registered articles in the clIenst. ernational arti international mails in accordance with convention stipulation , fifteen thousand dollars, of which not exceeding eight thousand dollars shall
be immediately available.

1338

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

Proviso. Payment for prior Provided, That the appropriations for payment of limited indemnity
yUenairosn ruunledse.r Postal for the loss of registered articles in the international mails for the
fiscal years ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and ei ht, nine-

Vol. 35, p. 1649.

teen hundred and nine, nineteen hundred and ten, and nineteen hundred and eleven, be, and the same are hereby, made available

for the payment of the amount of indemnity fixed by the Postal Union

Convention concluded at Rome, Italy, May twenty-sixth, nineteen

hundred and six, effective October first, nineteen hundred and

seven, for the loss in the international mails of any registered article

regardless of its value.

Special counsel, second-class mail privi-

For the employment of special counsel, to be appointed by the

lege suits.

Attorney General when requested by the Postmaster General, and at

compensation to be fixed by the Attorney General, not exceeding

this temporary appropriation, to prosecute and defend, on behalf of

the Post Office Department, all suits now pending or which may here-

Travel, etc.

after arise affecting the second-class mailing privilege, ten thousand dollars.
For travel and miscellaneous expenses in the postal service, office of the Third Assistant Postmaster General, one thousand dollars.

Fourth Assistant Postmaster General.

OFFICE OF THE FOURTH ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL.

Stationery.

For stationery, including all money-order offices, one hundred

thousand dollars.

Official and registry
envelopes. Distribution.

For official and registry envelopes, two hundred thousand dollars. For pay of agent and assistants to examine and distribute registry

envelopes; agent, two thousand dollars; chief clerk, one thousand

two hundred dollars; and one laborer, at six hundred and sixty dol-

lars; in all, three thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars.

Money-orderblanks etc.

For blanks, blank books, printed and engraved matter, binding and

carbon paper for the money-order service, one hundred and fifty

thousand dollars.

Registryblanks, etc. For blanks, books, and printed matter of urgent or special char-

acter, including the preparation, publication, and free distribution by

postmasters to the public of a pamphlet containing general postal information, intaglio seals, and other miscellaneous items of imme-

diate necessity for the registry system, six thousand five hundred

dollars.

City delivery supplies.

Supplies for the City Delivery Service, including letter boxes, letter-

box fasteners, package boxes, posts, furniture, satchels, straps,

baskets, time cards, time-card frames, time-recorder supplies, maps,

transfer designs, and stencils, ninety thousand dollars.

Postmarking stamps, etc.

For postmarking, rating, and money-order stamps and repairs to

same, metal, rubber, and combination type, dates and figures, type

holders, ink and pads for canceling and stamping purposes, fifty

thousand dollars. Letter scales, etc. For letter balances, scales, test weights, repairs to same, and for

tape measures, fifteen thousand dollars.

Wrapping paper. Twine, etc.

For wrapping paper, fifteen thousand dollars.
For wrapping twine and tying devices, two hundred thousand dollars.

Facing slips, etc.

For facing slips, plain and printed, including the furnishing of paper

for same; and for card slide labels, blanks, and books of an urgent

nature, sixty-five thousand dollars."

Miscellaneous sup

plies.

For the purchase, exchange, and repair of typewriting machines,

envelope-opening machines, and computing machines, and for the

purchase of copying presses, numbering machines, and miscellaneous

articles purchased and furnished directly to the postal service, ninety thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH.241. 1911.

1339

Supplies for the Rural Delivery Service, including collection boxes, pliReusr.al delivery supfurniture, satchels, straps, map supplies, repairing satchels and furni-

ture, repairing, erecting, and painting collection boxes in the Rural

Delivery Service, forty thousand dollars. To defray expenses incident to the shipment of supplies, including Shipping supplies.

hardware, boxing, packing, cartage, freight, and the pay of one car-

penter and three laborers for assignment in connection therewith, one

hundred thousand dollars. For intaglio seals, foreign mail service, ten thousand dollars.

Seals,foreign service. Star route transpor-

For inland transportation by star routes (excepting service in tation.

Alaska), including temporary service to newly established offices, Proviso. seven million one hundred and seventeen thousand dollars : Provided, Discontinuance If

That no part of this appropriation shall be expended for continuance seerryv. ed by rural delivof any star-route service the patronage of which shall be served

entirely by the extension of Rural Delivery Service, nor shall any of

said sum be expended for the establishment of new star-route service

for a patronage which is already entirely served by Rural Delivery
Service. For pay of letter carriers, substitutes for carriers on annual leave, reRusral delivery car-

clerks in charge of substations, and tolls and ferriage, Rural Delivery Service, forty-two million seven hundred and ninety thousand dol- Provisos. lars: Provided, That not to exceed twenty thousand dollars of the Substation clerks. amount hereby appropriated may be used for compensation of clerks in charge of substations: Provided further, That on and after July Carriers' salaries. first, nineteen hundred and eleven, letter carriers of the Rural Delivery Service shall receive a salary not exceeding one thousand dollars per annum: Providedfurther, That in the discretion of the Postmaster keLeackaerriWeri.nnepesan-
General the pay of the carrier on the water route on Lake Winnepesaukee who furnishes his own power boat for mail service during the summer months may be fixed at an amount not exceeding nine hundred dollars in any one calendar year.
For travel and miscellaneous expenses in the postal service, office Travel, etc.
of the Fourth Assistant Postmaster General, one thousand dollars. Extension of conThe Postmaster General is hereby authorized, in cases where the tract routes.

mail service would be thereby improved, to extend service on a mail

route under contract, at not exceeding pro rata additional pay:

Provided, That the extensions beyond either terminus ordered during PLriomviits.o.

a contract term shall not, in the aggregate, exceed twenty-five miles.

SEO. 2. That section two hundred and eleven of an Act of Congress Punishment for

entitled

" An

Act

to

codify,

revise,

and

amend

the

penal

laws

of

the

sending indecent, etc., matter.

United States," approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and nine, amVeonld.e3d5.. P. 1129,

be amended by adding thereto the following: "And the term 'inde- deIrn,ciotrinagsasrasssoinn,amtuiro-n cent' within the intendment of this section shall include matter of a included.

character tending to incite arson, murder, or assassination." SEO. 3. That hereafter for services required on Sundays of super- ofCofmorpSenusnadtaoyrlyabtoirm.e

visory officers, clerks in first and second class post offices, and city letter carriers, compensatory time off during working days in amount equal to that of the Sunday employment may be allowed, under such

regulations as the Postmaster General may prescribe ; but this pro-
vision shall not apply to auxiliary or substitute employees. SEO. 4. That after June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, emSpalloayreieess.of postal

where the salary or compensation of any employee in the postal

service is at an annual or monthly rate, the following rules shall be
followed in computing the amount due: An annual salary or compensation shall be divided into twelve equal installments, one of which shall be the pay for each calendar month; and in making pay-

Division bymonths. Computations of

ment for a fractional part of any calendar month there shall be paid parts ofmonth.

such proportion of one of such installments, or of the amount of the monthly salary or compensation, as the number of days in the fractional part of that month bears to the actual number of days in that month.

1340

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 241. 1911 .

Postal savings depositories.

SEC. 5. That the sum of five hundred thousand dollars, or so much

Ante, p. 814. Expenses for estab

thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated and made imme-

lishing, payable from diately available, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise

the Treasury. Ante, p. 817.

appropriated, to enable the Postmaster General to continue the estab-

lishment, maintenance, and extension of postal savings depositories,

including the reimbursement of the Secretary of the Treasury for

expenses incident to the preparation, issue, and registration of the

bonds authorized by the Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred

Provisos. Rent, central office.

and

ten:

Provided,

That

out of

such sum

an

amount

not

to

exceed

ten thousand dollars may be expended for the rental, if necessary, of

quarters for the central office of the Postal Savings System in the

Accounting.

District of Columbia: And provided further, That all expenditures

under this appropriation shall be audited bythe Auditor for the Post

Office Department : And provided further, That the Postmaster Gen-

Designation of of eral shall select and designate the post offices which are to be postal

efticc.es, compensation, savings depository offices, and shall appoint and fix the compensation

of such superintendents, inspectors, and other employees as may be necessary in conducting, supervising, and directing the business of

such offices, including the employees of a central office at Washington,

District of Columbia, and shall prescribe the hours during which

Regulations for de- postal savings depository offices shall remain open. He shall also eptocs.its, withdrawals, from time to time make rules and regulations with respect to the
deposits in and withdrawal of moneys from postal savings depositories

and the issue of pass books or such other devices as he may adopt as

evidence of such deposits or withdrawals, and the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, are

hereby modified accordingly.

Permissible marks on third and fourth

SEO. 6. That in addition to the permissible marks, writing, and

class matter.

printing on mail matter of the third and fourth classes, respectively,

Vol. 25, p.2.

or on the envelopes or packages containing them, as authorized by

Vol. 20, p. 360.

the Act of Congress approved January twentieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, entitled " An Act relating to permissible marks, printing, or writing, upon second, third, and fourth class matter, and
to amend the twenty-second and twenty-third sections of an Act entitled ' An Act making appropriations for the service of the Post Office Department for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other purposes,"'" there may be placed

on such mail matter, or on the package, wrapper, or envelope inclos-

unt"iPllCeahsreisdtomnaost,"opaeln- ing the same, or on a tag or label attached thereto, either in writing

lowed.

or otherwise, the words "Please do not open until Christmas," or

words to that effect.

Appropriation to

meet deficiencies.

SEC. 7. That if the revenues of the Post Office Department shall be

insufficient to meet the appropriations made by this Act, a sum equal

to such deficiency of the revenue of said department is hereby appro-

priated, to be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise

appropriated, to supply said deficiencies in the revenues for the Post

Office Department for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hun-

dred and twelve, and the sum needed may be advanced to the Post

Office Department upon requisition of the Postmaster General.

Postal notes authorized .

SEC. 8. That the Postmaster General may authorize postmasters at

Denominations. such offices as he shall designate, under such regulations as he shall

prescribe, to issue and pay money orders of fixed denominations, not

exceeding ten dollars, to be known as postal notes.

Good for six months.

That postal notes shall be valid for six calendar months from the

last day of the month of their issue, but thereafter may be paid under

Not indorsable.

such regulations as the Postmaster General may prescribe. That postal notes shall not be negotiable or transferable through

indorsement.

Liability canceled by payment.

That if a postal note has been once paid, to whomsoever paid, the

United States shall not be liable for any further claim for the amount

thereof.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 242. 1911 .

1341

CHAP. 242.-An Act Making appropriations for fortifications and other works of defense, for the armament thereof, for the procurement of heavy ordnance for trial and service, and for other purposes.

March 4, 1911. (H.R.32865. ]
[Public, No. 482.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the sums of money, prFioarttiiofnisc.ationsappro-
herein provided for be, and the same are hereby, appropriated, out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to be available until expended, namely:

FORTIFICATIONS AND OTHER WORKS OF :
UNDER THE ENGINEER DEPARTMENT.

DEFENSE. meEnntg.ineer Depart

For construction of fire-control stations and accessories, including tiFoinsr.e-control sta purchase of lands and rights of way, and for the purchase and installation of necessary lines and means of electrical communication, including telephones, dial and other telegraphs, wiring and all special
instruments, apparatus, and materials, coast signal apparatus, and salaries of electrical experts, engineers, and other necessary employees

connected with the use of coast artillery; for the purchase, manu- Range finders, etc. facture, and test of range, finders and other instruments for fire control at the fortifications, and the machinery necessary for their

manufacture at the arsenals, one hundred thousand dollars. For installation and replacement of electric light and power plants
at seacoast fortifications, fifty thousand dollars. For purchase and installation of searchlights for the defenses of our
most important harbors, fifty thousand dollars.

Powerplants. Searchlights.

For the protection, preservation, and repair of fortifications for
which there may be no special appropriation available, three hundred thousand dollars.
For preparation of plans for fortifications, five thousand dollars.

Preservation, etc. Plans.

For tools, electrical and engine supplies and appliances, to be fur- Electric plants.

nished by the Engineer Department, for the use of the troops 'for maintaining and operating electric light and power plants in gun and mortar batteries, forty-five thousand dollars.
For preservation and repair of structures erected for the torpedo defense of the United States, twenty thousand dollars.
Construction of mining casemates, cable galleries, torpedo store-
houses, cable tanks, and other structures necessary for the operation, preservation, and care of submarine mines and their accessories, fifty thousand dollars.

Torpedo structures.
Submarine mines. SCarree,, etc.

UNDER THE CHIEF SIGNAL OFFICER.

Signal service.

Fire-control instalFor operation and maintenance of fire-control installations at sea- lations. coast defenses, one hundred and eighty thousand dollars.

ARMAMENT OF FORTIFICATIONS.

Armament.

Mountain, field, and For the purchase, manufacture, and test of mountain, field, and siege cannon.

siege cannon, including their carriages, sights, implements, equipments, and the machinery necessary for their manufacture at the arsenals, four hundred and ninety-eight thousand dollars.
For the purchase, manufacture, and test of ammunition for moun-

Ammunition.

tain, field, and siege cannon, including the necessary experiments in

connection therewith and the machinery necessary for its manufacture

at the arsenals, three hundred thousand dollars.

Ammunitionforsea-

For the purchase, manufacture, and test of ammunition for sea- coast cannon.

coast cannon, including the necessary experiments in connection

1342

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 242. 1911.

therewith, and the machinery necessary for its manufacture at the

arsenals, one hundred and forty thousand dollars.

Ammunidonfor sea-

coast artillery prac- For the purchase, manufacture, and test of ammunition, subcaliber

tice.

guns, and other accessories for seacoast artillery practice, including

the machinery necessary for their manufacture at the arsenals, four

hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Altering mobile ar- For the alteration and maintenance of the mobile artillery, includtillery, etc.
ing the purchase and manufacture of machinery, tools, and materials

necessary for the work and the expenses of the mechanics engaged

thereon, forty-five thousand dollars.
Ammunition for field, etc., artillery For the purchase, manufacture, and test of ammunition, subcaliber

practice.

guns, and other accessories for mountain, field, and siege artillery

practice, including the machinery necessary for their manufacture at

the arsenals, one hundred and ten thousand dollars.

Alteringto rapid-fire batterics, etc.

For the alteration of three and two-tenths inch batteries to rapid-

fire field batteries, including sights, implements, equipments, and the

materials and machinery necessary for alteration and manufacture

at the arsenals, two hundred thousand dollars.

Altering, etc., seacoast artillery.

For the alteration and maintenance of the seacoast artillery, includ-

ing the purchase and manufacture of machinery, tools, materials

necessary for the work, and expenses of the civilian mechanics and

extra-duty pay of enlisted men engaged thereon, three hundred thou-

sand dollars.

SandyHookproving ground.

PROVING GROUND, SANDY HOOK, NEW JERSEY.

Expenses, etc.

For current expenses of the ordnance proving ground, Sandy Hook,

New Jersey, comprising the maintenance of rail and water transporta-

tion, repairs, alterations, accessories, and service of employees inci-

dental to testing and proving ordnance material, hire of assistants for

the Ordnance Board, purchase of instruments and articles required

for testing and experimental work, building and repairing butts and

targets, clearing and grading ranges, fifty-six thousand two hundred

dollars .

Temporary employment.

For the necessary expenses of officers while temporarily employed

Per diem, etc. on ordnance duties at the proving ground and absent from their

proper station, at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per diem

while so employed, and the compensation of draftsmen while employed

in the Army Ordnance Bureau on ordnance construction, eighteen thousand seven hundred dollars.

Submarine mines.

SUBMARINE MINES.

Purchases, etc.

For the purchase of submarine mines and necessary appliances to

operate them for closing the channels leading to our principal seaports,

and continuing torpedo experiments ; for the purchase of the necessary

machinery, tools, and implements for the repair shop of the torpedo

RFoerptaiTrottsehno,pN,.Yt.or- depot at Fort Totten, New York, and for extra-duty pay to soldiers

pedo depot.

necessarily employed for periods not less than ten days on work in

connection with the issue, receipt, and care of submarine mining

material at the torpedo depot, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 242. 1911 .

1343

FORTIFICATIONS IN INSULAR POSSESSIONS.

Insular possessions.

ENGINEER DEPARTMENT.

meEnntg.ineer Depart

For construction of seacoast batteries, as follows:

Seacoast batteries.

In the Hawaiian Islands, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; Hawaiian Islands.

In the Philippine Islands, one million one hundred and sixty-nine Philippine Islands. thousand dollars ;

In all, one million three hundred and nineteen thousand dollars.

For installation of light and power plants at the defenses of the Electric plants.

following localities: In the Philippine Islands, one hundred and seventy-one thousand Philippine Islands.
nine hundred and sixty-two dollars.

For purchase and installation of searchlights for the defenses of Searchlights.

most important harbors, as follows: In the Hawaiian Islands, forty thousand one hundred dollars.

Hawalian Islands.

For protection, preservation, and repair of fortifications at the Preservation, etc.

following localities: In the Philippine Islands, seven thousand dollars.

Philippine Islands,

For preservation and repair of structures erected for torpedo Torpedo structures.

defense at the following localities: In the Philippine Islands, one thousand dollars.

Philippine Islands,

For tools, electrical and other supplies and appliances, to be fur- plOapnetrsa. ting power nished by the Engineer Department forthe use of the troops for maintaining and operating gun and mortar batteries-

In the Hawaiian Islands, one thousand dollars.

In the Philippine Islands, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For land defenses, Philippine Islands, one hundred and eighty ,ipLpainneds.defenses, Philthousand dollars.

UNDER THE CHIEF SIGNAL OFFICER.

Signal Service.

Fire-control instalFor operation and maintenance of fire-control installations at sea- lations.
coast defenses, twenty thousand dollars.

ORDNANCE DEPARTMENT.

Armament.

Seacoast cannon. For the purchase, manufacture, and test of seacoast cannon for

coast defense, including their carriages, sights, implements, equip-

ments, and the machinery necessary for their manufacture at the

arsenals, two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars. For purchase, manufacture, and test of ammunition for seacoast Ammunition.

cannon, including the necessary experiments in connection there-

with, and the machinery necessary for its manufacture at the arse

nals, four hundred thousand dollars.

For the alteration and

maintenance of the seacoast

artillery,

includ-

Altering, etc., coast artillery.

sea-

ing the purchase and manufacture of machinery, tools, and materials

necessary for the work, and expenses of the civilian mechanics and extra-duty pay of enlisted men engaged thereon, thirty-four thousand and forty-five dollars.

For the mechanical supervision of the installation of seacoast arItnilsltearlyl.ing seacoast artillery, including the purchase and manufacture of machinery, tools, and materials necessary for the work, and expenses of civilian mechanics and extra-duty pay of enlisted men engaged thereon, four thousand two hundred dollars.

That all material purchased under the provisions of this Act shall AmMeartiecraianl tmoanbuefaocf
be of American manufacture, except in cases when, in the judgment ture. of the Secretary of War, it is to the manifest interest of the United

States to make purchases in limited quantities abroad, which material shall be admitted free of duty.

1344

SIXTY -FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 242, 243. 1911 .

interchange of material allowed.

The Chief of Ordnance, in conducting manufacturing or similar

operations under any particular appropriation heretofore or here-

after made, is authorized to use material procured under any appro-

Proviso. Accounting.

priation and to replace the same in kind or otherwise : Provided, That in doing so the methods shall be such that each appropriation

will be charged with the full value of the material used in carrying out its object.

Board of Ordnance and Fortification.

BOARD OF ORDNANCE AND FORTIFICATION.

Purchases, etc.

To enable the board to make all needful and proper purchases,
experiments, and tests to ascertain, with a view to their utilization by the Government, the most effective guns, small arms, cartridges,

projectiles , fuses, explosives, torpedoes, armor plates, and other

implements and engines of war, and to purchase or cause to be manufactured, under authority of the Secretary of War, such guns, car-

riages, armor plates, and other war material as may, in the judgment

Vol. 25, p. 489.

of the board, be necessary in the proper discharge of the duty devolved upon it by the Act approved September twenty-second,

Civilian member. Vol. 26, p. 769.

eighteen hundred and eighty-eight ; to pay the salary of the civilian member of the Board of Ordnance and Fortification provided by the Act of February twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Per diem, etc.

and for the necessary traveling expenses of said member when traveling on duty as contemplated in said Act; for the payment of the necessary expenses of the board, including a per diem allowance to

each officer detailed to serve thereon, when employed on duty away

from his permanent station, of two dollars and fifty cents a day ; and

for the test of experimental guns, carriages, and other devices procured in accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Ord-

nance and Fortification, twenty-five thousand dollars, the expenditure

of which shall be made by the several bureaus of the War Department

heretofore having jurisdiction of the same, or by the board itself, as

Proviso.

the Secretary of War may direct : Provided, That before any money

tioRnisg. ht to use inven- shall be expended in the construction or test of any gun, gun carriage,

ammunition, or implements under the supervision of the said board, the board shall be satisfied, after due inquiry, that the Government of the United States has a lawful right to use the inventions involved
in the construction of such gun, gun carriage, ammunition, or implements, or that the construction or test is made at the request of a person either having such lawful right or authorized to convey the same to the Government.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. (S. 2015.]
[Public, No. 483.]

CHAP. 243.-An Act For the relief ofJohn B. Lord , owner of lot eighty-six, square
seven hundred and twenty-three, Washington, District of Columbia, with regard to assessment and payment ofdamages on account ofchanges of grade due to construction ofthe Union Station, District of Columbia.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

DCihstarnicgtesofoCfogrlaudmebifoar. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That under and in accordance

Union Station.

with the terms and provisions of the Act of Congress approved April

Vol. 33, p. 230.

twenty-second , nineteen hundred and four, entitled " An Act to pro-

vide for payment of damages on account of change of grade due to

construction of the Union Station , in the District of Columbia," as

Vol. 34, p. 619. John B. Lord.

amended by the Act of Congress approved June twenty-ninth, nine-

Commission to teen hundred and six, the commission appointed under said Act is

dfeortedrammiangeesc.laim of, hereby authorized and directed to meet and view the property known

as lot eighty-six, in square seven hundred and twenty-three, improved

by premises numbered four hundred and nine First street northeast,

city of Washington , District of Columbia, and hear testimony touch-

ing the damages to said property which have resulted from changes

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cus. 243-246. 1911 .

1345

in the grade of streets, avenues, or alleys authorized by the Act of Vol. 32, p. 914. Congress approved February twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and three, relating to the construction of a union railroad station in the

District of Columbia, and to appraise and determine the amount of

damages, if any, to which the owner of said property so affected by

change of grade may be entitled .

SEO.

2.

That

if any

of the

parties

interested,

their

personal

repre-

Jury to Appeals.

consider

sentatives, or the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, shall be

dissatisfied with the appraisement or award of said commission, the

court shall, on motion of the parties so dissatisfied, direct the United

States marshal to summon a jury of seven disinterested men, not

related to any person in interest, to meet and view the said property, and to appraise and determine the amount of damages to which the owner of said property so affected by change of grade may be entitled, as provided in and by the aforesaid Act of Congress so amended as aforesaid.
SEO. 3. That a sufficient sum to pay the compensation and expenses DiAsptprrioctpreivaetniuoensf. rom

of said commission and the compensation of said jurors, and the

amount of any appraisement or award of damages made in favor of the owner of said property is hereby appropriated out of the revenues of the District of Columbia, and fifty per centum thereof shall be refunded to said District of Columbia by the United States.

Refund of one half.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

CHAP. 244.-An Act For the erection of a monument over the grave of President John Tyler.

March 4, 1911. [S. 3662.]
(Public, No. 481.]

Be itenacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War TyPlrere.sident John

be,

and

he

is

hereby,

authorized

and

directed

to

cause

a

suitable

monu-

Monument authorized overgrave of.

ment to be erected over the grave of the late John Tyler, former

President of the United States, in Hollywood Cemetery, Richmond,

Virginia, not to exceed in cost the sum of ten thousand dollars.

Cost.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 245.--An Act To place David Robertson on the retired list of the United March 4, 1911.

States Army.

(S. 4196.]

(Public, No. 185.]

Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That in consequence of the

Army. David

Robertson

long, faithful, and meritorious service of David Robertson, under placed on retired list

appointment of the Secretary of War, as hospital steward, and ser- awsithhofsupllitgarladsetoefwpaaryd, geant, first-class, hospital corps, in the Army of the United States etc.

since May twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and fifty-four, a period

of fifty-five years, the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, authorized to place said David Robertson on the retired list of enlisted men

of the army, with full pay of his grade and commutation of allowances

at the following rates per month: Clothing, four dollars and fifty-six cents; rations, thirty dollars, and fuel and quarters , twenty dollars.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 246.- An Act To provide for allotments to certain members of the Hoh, ' March 4, 1911.

Quileute, and Ozette tribes of Indians in the State of Washington.

(S. 5269.]

[Public, No. 486.]

Beit enacted by the Sehate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ReQsueirnvnaiteilotn, IWansdhi.an

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to make allot-

ments on the Quinaielt Reservation, Washington, under the provisions

1346

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 246-248. 1911 .

Hoh, Ozette,

etQc.u,iIlneduitanes,

of the allotment laws of the

United

States, to all

members of the

Hoh,

mona.y take allotments Quileute, Ozette or other tribes of Indians in Washington who are

Vol. 12, p. 971. affiliated with the Quinaielt and Quileute tribes in the treaty of July

first, eighteen hundred and fifty-five, and January twenty-third,
eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and who may elect to take allotments
on the Quinaielt Reservation rather than on the reservations set aside Proviso. From surplus lands. for these tribes: Provided, That the allotments authorized herein shall
be made from the surplus lands on the Quinaielt Reservation after the
allotments to the Indians thereon have been completed.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [S. 6104.]

CHAP. 247.--An Act Providing for the promotion of Civil Engineer Robert E. Peary, United States Navy, and tendering to him the thanks of Congress.

[Public, No. 487.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Navy.

States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe President of the

maRyobbeerrettirEed.aPseraearry- United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to place Civil Engineer

admiral.

Robert E. Peary, United States Navy, on the retired list of the Corps

of Civil Engineers with the rank of rear-admiral, to date from April

sixth, nineteen hundred and nine, with the highest retired pay of that

grade under existing law.

Thanks of Congress

tendered.

SEO. 2. That the thanks of Congress be, and the same are hereby,

tendered to Robert E. Peary, United States Navy, for his Arctic

explorations resulting in reaching the North Pole.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [S. 6639.]
[Public, No. 489.]

CHAP. 248.-An Act For the relief of Margaretha Weideman, Clarence C. Weideman, and Auguerite E. Weideman, owners, of lots numbered one, two, and three,
square numbered four hundred and thirty-four, in the city of Washington, District of Columbia.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

DCihsatnrigcetsooffCgorlaudmebfioar. States of America in Congress assembled, That under and in accord-

Union Station.

ance with the terms and provisions of the Act of Congress approved

Vol. 32, p. 909.

February twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and three, relating to the

Vol. 33, p. 250.

construction of a union railroad station in the District of Columbia, which said Act was amended by an Act of Congress approved April

twenty-second, nineteen hundred and four, entitled " An Act to pro-

Vol. 34, p. 619.

vide for payment of damages on account of change of grade due to construction of Union Station, District of Columbia," as amended by an Act of Congress approved June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, entitled " An Act amendatory to an Act entitled ' An Act to

provide for payment of damages on account of change of grade due
to construction of Union Station, District of Columbia,' approved
Margaretha, Clar- April twenty-second, nineteen hundred and four," the commission ence C., and Auguerite E. Weideman, appointed under said Act is hereby authorized and directed to meet

teCrommimniessciloanimtso dfeor- and view the property known as lots numbered one, two, and three, in

damage of.

square numbered four hundred and thirty-four, improved by premises

numbered three hundred and twenty-three Seventh street southwest,

city of Washington, District of Columbia, and hear testimony touch-

ing the damages to said property which have resulted from changes in

grade of streets, avenues, or alleys authorized by the Act of Congress 33,Vopl.. 3225.0,p. 9V1o4l;. Vo84l., approved February twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and three, and

p. 619.

amendatory Acts approved April twenty-second, nineteen hundred

and four, and June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, relating to the construction of a new railroad station in the District of Colum-

bia, and to appraise and determine the amount of damages, if any, to which the owners of said property so affected by change of grade may be entitled.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 248-250. 1911 .

1347

SEC. 2. That if any of the parties interested, their personal repre- pJeaulrs.ytoconsider apsentatives, or the Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall be
dissatisfied with the appraisement or award of said commission, the court shall, on motion of the parties so dissatisfied, direct the United States marshal to summon ajury of seven disinterested men not related to any person in interest to meet and view the said property, and to appraise and determine the amount of damages to which the owners of said property so affected by change of grade may be entitled, as provided in and by the aforesaid Act of Congress, which was amended as aforesaid.
SEC. 3. That a sufficient sum to pay the compensation and expenses DiAsptrpircotprreivaetniuoens.from of said commission and a compensation of said jurors and the amount of any appraisement or award of damages made in favor of the owners
of said property is hereby appropriated out of the revenues of the District of Columbia, and fifty per centum thereof shall be refunded Refund ofone-half
to said District of Columbia by the United States.
Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 249 - An Act To authorize the extension of Seventeenth Street northeast. March 4, 1911. [S. 8300.]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Public, No. 489.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That under and in accordance DSiesvternictteoefntCholuSmtbrieeat.

with the provisions of subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the Code of northeast.

Law for the

District of Columbia,

within

six months after the passage

Condemning for extending.

land

of this Act, the Commissioners of the District of Columbia be, and Vol. 34, p. 161.

they are hereby, authorized and directed to institute in the supreme court of the District of Columbia a proceeding in rem to condemn the land that may be necessary for the extension of Seventeenth street northeast from Brentwood road to Rhode Island avenue, according to

the permanent system of highway plans adopted in and for the District

of Columbia: Provided, however, That the entire amount found to be

Provisos. Damagesassessed as

due and awarded by the jury in said proceedings as damages for and in benefits.

respect of the land to be condemned for said extension shall be assessed

by the jury as benefits: And provided further, That nothing in said meMnitn. imum assesssubchapter one of chapter fifteen of said code shall be construed to

authorize the jury to assess less than the aggregate amount of the damages awarded for and in respect of the land to be condemned and

the costs and expenses of the proceedings hereunder. SEC. 2. That there is hereby appropriated from the revenues of the exAppepnrsoepsr,ieattc.ion for
District of Columbia an amount sufficient to pay the necessary costs
and expenses of the condemnation proceedings taken pursuant hereto and for the payment of amounts awarded as damages, to be repaid to Awards. the District of Columbia from the assessments for benefits and covered
into the Treasury to the credit of the revenues of the District of Columbia.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 250.-An Act To change the name of Messmore place to Mozart place.

March 4, 1911. [S. 8774. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Public, No. 490.]
States of America in Congress assembled, That the street now known DMiesstrsimcotrofeCPollacuembdieas. and designated as Messmore place and extending from Euclid street ignated Mozart Place. to Columbia road shall hereafter be designated Mozart place, and the surveyor of the District of Columbia is hereby directed to enter such change on the records of his office.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

1348

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 251-253 . 1911 .

March 4, 1911. (S. 9094. ]
[Public, No. 491.]

CHAP. 251.- An Act To authorize the Secretary of War to sell to the Nabant
and Lynn Street Railway Company a portion of the United States coast defense military reservation at Nahant, Massachusetts.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United ReNsearhvaanttionM,iMlaistsa. ry States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War, haSnatleanodf Lstyrnipn tSotrNeaet- for and on behalf of the United States, is hereby authorized to grant Railway Company. and convey by deed to the Nahant and Lynn Street Railway Company,
a corporation duly organized under the laws of the Commonwealth

of Massachusetts, a strip of land sixteen feet wide lying along the

northerly and westerly sides of the military reservation at Nabant,

Massachusetts, and abutting upon Flash Road and upon Castle Road

as far south as the southerly line of Range Road prolonged; said land

Provisos. Reversion.

to be, by the said street railway company, or its successors and assigns, permanently used as the location for a street railway: Provided, That when it shall cease to be used for this purpose, it shall revert to the

seRrviegdht. s of way re- United States: Provided further, That there shall be reserved to the

United States rights of way across said strip of land at the northeast-

erly and northwesterly corners of the reservation, and at Range Road. Amount to be paid. SEC. 2. That the deed required by the foregoing section of this Act

shall not be delivered to the said Nahant and Lynn Street Railway

Company until said company shall have paid to the United States, for the said strip of land, the sum of three thousand five hundred dollars.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [S. 9351.]
(Public, No. 492.J

CHAP. 252.-An Act To amend an Act entitled "An Act providing forthe retire-
ment of certain medical officers of the Army," approved June twenty-second, nineteen hundred and ten.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Army.

Medical Depart- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act approved June

ment.

twenty-second, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled " An Act providing

ed. le, p. 580, amend for the retirement of certain medical officers of the Army," be, and

the same is hereby, amended as follows: Words stricken out. Strike out the words " in the War of the Rebellion," following the

words 66 enlisted man, " in said Act, so that the Act as amended will

read :

"Be itenacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

CoMrepdsi. cal Reserve States of America in Congress assembled, That any officer of the Med-

ofR7e0t. irement at age ical Reserve Corps who shall have reached the age of seventy years,

Vol. 35, p. 69.

and whose total active service in the Army of the United States, Reg-

serAvlilce fionrcmluedredA.rmy ular or Volunteer, as such officer, and as contract or acting assistant

surgeon, and as an enlisted man, shall equal forty years, may there-

upon, in the discretion of the President, be placed upon the retired

list of the Army with the rank, pay, and allowances of a first lieutenant. "

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 253.-An Act To authorize construction of the Broadway Bridge across

(S. 10274.] the Willamette River at Portland, Oregon.

[Public, No. 193.]

Willamette River. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Portland , Oreg., States of America in Congress assembled, That the city of Portland, in

iwnaayy.bridge at Broad- the county of Multnomah, State of Oregon, is hereby fully authorized

"

and empowered to construct and build a bridge to be known as the

Broadway Bridge, with appropriate approaches and terminals with a

clearance of not less than sixty-five feet above high-water mark and not less than ninety-three and thirteen one-hundredths feet above low-

water mark, city datum, across the Willamette, a navigable river, in said city, substantially as follows, to wit: From Broadway Street at

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 253-255. 1911 .

1349

or near its intersection with Larrabee Street on the east side of said
river, and following the line of Broadway Street extended westerly in its present course to a point at or near its intersection with Seventh Street on the west side of said river ; thence southerly and easterly to a point at or near the intersection of Sixth and Irving Streets in said city : Provided, That said bridge shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. For all purposes the consent of Congress, granted by this
Act, shall be held as relating back to the commencement of the project, and everything done in connection therewith.
SEO. 3. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.
Approved, March 4, 1911.

PCroonvsitsrou.ction, etc. Vol. 34, p. 81.
Retroactive consent.
Amendment.

CHAP. 254.-An Act Authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to issue patent to David Eddington covering homestead entry.

March 4, 1911. [S. 10357.]
[Public, No. 4941.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United David Eddington. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Homestead grantin

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to cause patent Utah.

to issue to David Eddington for the northwest quarter of section

twenty in township five north, range five east, Salt Lake meridian, in

the Salt Lake land district, Utah, upon proof of compliance with the Proviso.

homestead laws in the matter of residence and cultivation: Provided,

reserved to

That the patent which shall issue to the said David Eddington shall GoVvoelr.n3m5,epn.t8. 44. reserve the coal to the Government under the Act of March third,
nineteen hundred and nine.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 255.-An Act To grant certain lands to the city of Trinidad, Colorado.

March 4, 1911. (S. 10591.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Public, No. 495.] States of America in Congress assembled, That the following described PGurbalnitcedlantdos. Trinilands, situate in Las Animas County, Colorado, namely: The south- dad, Colo.

west quarter of the northeast quarter of section nineteen, in township thirty-two south, range sixty-eight west of the sixth principal merid-

ian, containing forty acres, more or less, be, and the same are hereby, granted and conveyed to the city of Trinidad, in the county of Las

Animas and State of Colorado, upon the payment of one dollar and Payment. twenty-five cents per acre by said city to the United States . The Useforwatersupply.

above lands are granted and conveyed to the city of Trinidad, to have and hold for its separate use for purposes of water storage and

protection of water supply; and for said purposes said city shall

forever have the right, in its discretion, to control and use any and all parts of the premises herein conveyed, and in the construction of

reservoirs, laying such pipes and mains, and in making such improve-

ments as may be necessary to utilize the water contained in any

natural or constructed reservoirs upon said premises, and to protect

its water supply from pollution and otherwise: Provided, however,

Provisos. Subject to existing

That the grant hereby made is and the patent issued hereunder shall rights.

be subject to all legal rights heretofore acquired by any person or

persons in or to the above-described premises, or any part thereof, and now existing under and by virtue of the laws of the United States: And provided, That there shall be reserved to the United serve,de. tc., rights reStates all oil, coal, and other mineral deposits that may be found in

the lands so granted, and all necessary use of the lands for extracting

88740°-VÓL 36, PT 1--11--87

1350

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 255-257. 1911 .

usReerv. ersion for non- the same : And provided further, That the lands hereby authorized to be purchased, as hereinbefore set forth, and all portions thereof shall be held and used by or for the said grantee for the purposes
herein specified, and in the event the said lands shall cease to be so used they shall revert to the United States, and this condition shall be expressed in the patent to be issued under the terms of this Act.
Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [S. 10638.]
[Public, No. 496. ]

CHAP. 256.-An Act To authorize the Secretary of War to sell certain lands
owned by the United States and situated on Dauphin Island, in Mobile County, Alabama .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
AlDaa.uphin Island, States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be, laSnadlseoonf.Government and he is hereby, authorized to sell so much or such parts of that cer-
tain tract of land condemned and held by the United States, and situated on Dauphin Island, in Mobile County, Alabama, as may not be reasonably necessary for present or prospective military or cognate purposes, for such consideration or upon such terms as he may find reasonable, not less than the original cost, and to execute deeds therefor.
Approved, March-4, 1911 .

March 4. 1911. (S. 10756.]
(Public, No. 497.]

CHAP. 257.-An Act Granting public lands to the town of Omak, State of Washington, for public-park purposes.

Public lands.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the

Granted to Omak, United States of America in Congress assembled, That there is hereby Wash.,forpublic park.
granted and conveyed, for public-park purposes, to the town of Omak,

county of Okanogan, State of Washington, a municipal corporation,

Description.

the following-described lands, or so much thereof as said town may desire, to wit: All of Government lot numbered three, section twenty-

five; and all of Government lot numbered four, section twenty-six,

both lying in township thirty-four north, and range twenty-six east

of Willamette meridian, and containing twenty-nine and twelve one-

Payment.

hundredths acres, more or less. SEC. 2. That the said conveyance shall be made of the said lands

to the said town by the Secretary of the Interior upon the payment

by the said town for the said lands, or such portion thereof as it may

select, at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, and patent issued to the said town for the said lands selected, to have

clSauimbsj. ect to valid and to hold for public-park purposes, subject to the existing laws and

regulations concerning public parks, and that the grant hereby made

shall not include any lands which at the date of the issuance of pat-

Provisos.

ent shall be covered by a valid, existing, bona fide right or claim

Oil, etc., rights re- initiated under the laws of the United States: Provided, That there

served.

shall be reserved to the United States all oil, coal, and other mineral

deposits that may be found in the lands so granted, and all neces-

Reversion for non- sary use of the lands for extracting the same: And provided further,

user.

That the said town shall not have the right to sell or convey the lands

herein granted, or any parts thereof, or to devote the same to any other purpose than as hereinbefore described, and that if the said

lands shall not be used as public parks the same, or such parts thereof not so used, shall revert to the United States.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 258-261 . 1911 .

1351

CHAP. 258.-An Act To extend the time for the completion of a bridge across the Missouri River at Yankton, South Dakota, by the Yankton, Norfolk and Southern Railway Company.

March 4, 1911. (S. 10923.]
[Public, No. 498.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That section six of the Act MTiismseoureixtReinvdeer.d for

approved March ninth, nineteen hundred and four, authorizing the bNroirdfgoilnkgabnydYSaonutkhteornn.

Yankton, Norfolk and Southern Railway Company to construct a Railway Company.

combined railroad, wagon, and foot-passenger bridge across the Mis-

Vol. 3, pp. 62, 621. Vol. 31, PP. 9. 1058.

souri River at or near the city of Yankton, South Dakota, as amended

Vol. 35, pp. 35, 1059. Ante, p. 267.

by the Act approved March twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and ten,

be, and the sume is hereby, so amended that the time within which the

said bridge is required to be commenced shall be within one year and the time within which it is required that the said bridge shall be completed shall be within three years from the date of the approval of this Act.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

CHAP. 259. An Act To give the consent of Congress to the building of a bridge by the city of Northport, Washington, over the Columbia River at Northport.

March 4, 1911. [S. 10863.]
[Public, No. 499.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Columbia River. States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of Congress Northport, Wash. ,

be, and is hereby, given to the city of Northport, in the State of may bridge.

Washington, to construct and maintain a wagon bridge and approaches thereto over the Columbia River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation at Northport, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third; nineteen hundred and six.

Vol. 31, p. 84.

SEO. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 260.-An Act To authorize the Canyon Snake River Wagon Bridge Com-
mission to construct a bridge across the Snake River at or near the town of Payette, Idaho.

March 4, 1911. [S. 10878.]
[Public, No. 500.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Snake River, Idaho. States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Canyon Snake River Canyon Snake River Wagon Bridge Commission is hereby authorized to construct, main- Wmiasgsoionn mBraiydbgreidCgoema-t tain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Snake Payette.
River, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or near the town of Payette, in the county of Canyon, in the State of Idaho, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regu- . Vol . 81, p. 84. late the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, March 4, 1911. .

CHAP. 261.-An Act For the relief of registers and former registers of the United States land offices.

March 4, 1911. (H. R. 6013.]
[Public, No. 501.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Public lands.

States of America ir

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of the Refund to registers of fees for cancella-

Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to refund, out onnotices.

of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to registers Vol. 27, p. 270.

1352

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 261-263 . 1911 .

and former registers of United States land offices money earned by them for issuing notices of the cancellation of entries subsequent to

July twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, which money, under the instructions of the Secretary of the Interior, they were

erroneously required to deposit in the United States Treasury, con-

Provisos. Accounts.

trary to the provisions of the Act approved July twenty-sixth , eighteen hundred and ninety-two : Provided, That such refund shall be made only of money deposited subsequent to the approval of the Act of July twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, and shall

Limitation.

be made upon accounts stated and certified by the Secretary of the Interior: And provided further, That said refund shall be made of only such fees which have not entered into the compensation paid to

such registers-out of the appropriation for salaries and commissions

of registers and receivers for any fiscal year.

Accounting here-

after.

SEC. 2. That hereafter all money or fees received or collected by

registers of United States land offices for issuing notices of cancella-

tion of entries shall be reported and accounted for by such registers in the same manner as other fees or moneys received or collected .

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [H.R. 7549.]
(Public, No. 502.]

CHAP. 262.-An Act Providing for the erection of a joint monument to the
memory of General James Screven and General Daniel Stewart, two distinguished officers of the American Army.

Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

ScGreevneenraanld JGeanmereasl States of America in Congress assembled, That a joint monument be

Daniel Stewart.

erected in the old cemetery at Midway, Liberty County, Georgia, in

Monument at Mid-

way, Ga., to.

memory of the lives and public services of General James Screven

and General Daniel Stewart.

Appropriation.

SEC. 2. That for the purpose of the construction, erection , and

completion of said monument the sum of ten thousand dollars, or so

Design.

much thereof as is necessary, is hereby authorized, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War; and the design may be made

Proviso. Approval.

by the Midway Society, charged as it is with the preservation and care of the said cemetery: Provided, That said design shall be approved by the Secretary of War.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 9137.]
[Public, No. 503. ]

CHAP. 263.- An Act To authorize the expenditure of the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars as a part contribution toward the erection of a monument at Germantown, Pennsylvania, in commemoration of the founding of the first permanent German settlement in America.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
Germantown, Pa. States of America in Congress assembled, That the expenditure of the Expenditure for
monument to first sum of twenty-five thousand dollars is hereby authorized to aid in

German settlement. erecting a monument at Germantown, Pennsylvania, in commemora-

Provisos.

tion of the founding of the first permanent German settlement in

Additional amount America: Provided, That no part of the sum herein authorized shall

required.

be expended until there shall have been raised and made available for

the erection of said monument an additional sum of at least twenty-

Approval of design. five thousand dollars: Provided further, That the design of said monument shall be approved by the Secretary of War, the governor of the State of Pennsylvania, and the president of the National German-

Expenditures. Care, etc.

American Alliance ; and the money for the erection of the said monument shall be expended under the supervision of the Secretary of War, the governor of Pennsylvania, and the president of the National German- American Alliance: And provided further, That the respon-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 263-265. 1911 .
sibility for the care and keeping of the said monument shall be and remain with the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it being understood that the United States shall have no responsibility therefor.
Approved, March 4, 1911.

1353

CHAP. 264.-An Act Authorizing proper accounting officers of the Treasury Department to reopen pay accounts of certain officers of the navy.
Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 19010.]
[Public, No. 501.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the proper accounting NSuasvpye.nded ration officers of the Treasury Department are hereby authorized and directed money accounts re-
to reopen the accounts of the pay officers of the navy named below opAelnleodw.ances.
for the purpose of allowing amounts as set forth, which were paid to

treasurers of officers' messes in various navy-yards on account of com-

muted ration money for enlisted servants , and afterwards suspended

against the pay officers' accounts and by them collected from the offi-

cers who were members of the messes: Pay Inspector F. T. Arms,

navy-yard, New York (account of W. L. Wilson) , six hundred and

fifty-four dollars and ninety cents; Paymaster Charles Conard, navy-

yard, Norfolk, Virginia, two hundred and forty-six dollars and sixty

cents; Paymaster R. Nicholson, navy-yard, Mare Island, California, four hundred and seventy-eight dollars and eighty cents; Passed

Assistant Paymaster E. A. McMillan, naval station, Guam, two hun-

dred and sixty-five dollars and fifty cents; total, one thousand six hun-

dred and forty-five dollars and eighty cents.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 265. --An Act For the establishment of marine schools, and for other purposes.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 24145.]
[Public, No. 505.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Marine schools, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Loan of naval ves-

Navy, to promote nautical education, is hereby authorized and empow- sels, etc., for. ered to furnish, upon the application in writing of the governor of a

State, a suitable vessel of the navy, with all her apparel, charts, books,

and instruments of navigation, provided the same can be spared with-

out detriment to the naval service, to be used for the benefit of any

nautical school, or school or college having a nautical branch, estab-

lished at each of the following ports of the United States: Boston, Ports designated.

Philadelphia, New York, Seattle, San Francisco, Baltimore, Detroit, Saginaw, Michigan, Norfolk, and Corpus Christi, upon the condition Conditions.

that there shall be maintained at such port a school or branch of a

school for the instruction of youths in navigation, steamship-marine

engineering, and all matters pertaining to the proper construction,

equipment, and sailing of vessels or any particular brauch thereof.

SEC. 2. Thata sum not exceeding the amount annually appropriated inApspuprpooprti.ation toaid by any State or municipality for the purpose of maintaining such a

marine school or schools or the nautical branch thereof is hereby

authorized to be appropriated for the purpose of aiding in the main- Proviso. tenance and support of such school or schools: Provided, however, Limitations.

That appropriations shall be made for one school in any port heretofore named in section one and that the appropriation for any one year

shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars for any one school. SEO. 3. That the President of the United States is hereby author- Detail of officers.

ized, when in his opinion the same can be done without detriment to

the public service, to detail proper officers of the navy as superintend-

ents of or instructors in such schools: Provided, That if any such

1354

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 265-268. 1911 .

Proviso.

Restoration of ves- school shall be discontinued , or the good of the naval service shall

sel.

require, such vessel shall be immediately restored to the Secretary

of the Navy and the officers so detailed recalled : And provided further,

Not penal schools. That no person shall be sentenced to or received at such schools as á

punishment or commutation of punishment for crime.

Conflicting laws repealed.

SEC. 4. That all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are

hereby repealed.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 24256.]

CHAP. 266.- An Act To authorize commissions to issue in the cases of officers retired or advanced on the retired list with increased rank.

[Public, No. 506.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
Commissions. Retired Army, Navy, States of America in Congress assembled, That commissioned officers

and MarineCorps off of the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps on the retired list whose rank

creresasteodrrecaenikv.e, for in- has been or shall hereafter be advanced by operation of or in accord-

Ante, p.347.

ance with law shall be entitled to and shall receive commissions in

accordance with such advanced rank.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. (H. R. 24885.]
(Public, No. 507.]

CHAP. 267.-An Act To amend section thirty-five hundred and thirty-six of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to the weighing of silver coins.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Coinage.

R.S.. sec. 3536, p. 699, States of America in Congress assembled, That section thirty-five hun-

amended.

dred and thirty-six of the Revised Statutes of the United States be,

and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows :

Deviation in silver

coins permitted.

"SEC . 3536. In adjusting the weight of the silver coins the following

deviations shall not be exceeded in any single piece: In the dollar, the

half and quarter dollar, and in the dime, one and one-half grains."

Approved, March 4 , 1911.

March 4, 1911. (H. R. 24886.]
[Public, No, 508.]

CHAP. 268.--An Act To amend sections thirty-five hundred and forty-eight and thirty-five hundred and forty-nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relative to the standards for coinage.

Coinage. Weights at mints.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That section thirty-five hundred and forty-eight of the Revised Statutes of the United States

be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows:

Standard troy pound of Bureau of Stand-

"SEC. 3548. For the purpose of securing a due conformity in

athrodrsirtye.cognized as au- weight of the coins of the United States to the provisions of the laws

R.S., sec. 3548, p. 701, relating to coinage, the standard troy pound of the Bureau of Stand-

amcuded.

ards of the United States shall be the standard troy pound of the Mint

of the United States, conformably to which the coinage thereof shall

be regulated."

SEC. 2. That section thirty-five hundred and forty-nine of the

Revised Statutes of the United States be, and the same is hereby,

amended so as to read as follows:

Standard weightsat -mintsand assayoffices

"SEC. 3549. It shall be the duty of the Director of the Mint to

toofcoSntfaonrdmatrodBsuteraouy procure for each mint and assay office, to be kept safely thereat,

pound.

a series of standard weights corresponding to the standard troy

amRe.nSd..esde.c. 3519, p 701, pound of the Bureau of Standards of the United States, consisting

of a one-pound weight and the requisite subdivisions and multiples

Inspection.

thereof, from the hundredths part of a grain to twenty-five pounds. The troy weight ordinarily employed in the transactions of such

mints and assay offices shall be regulated according to the above

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 268-270. 1911 .
standards at least once in every year, under the inspection of the superintendent and assayer; and the accuracy of those used at the Mint at Philadelphia shall be tested annually, in the presence of the assay commissioners, at the time of the annual examination and test of coins."
Approved, March 4, 1911 .

1355

CHAP. 269.--An Act To amend section eleven, Act of May twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-six.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 25192.]
[Public, No. 509.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That section eleven of the UMnairtsehdalStsa. tescourts.

Act' making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and judicial taDinouSbtalteesfereespeianlecder. expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, approved May twenty-eighth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-six, be, and the same is hereby, amended to read as follows:

"SEO. 11. That at any time when, in the opinion of the marshal thFoireilzedd.deputies au-

of any district, the public interest will thereby be promoted, he may

R. S., sec. 780, p. 147. Vol. 29, p. 183,

appoint one or more deputy marshals for such district, who shall be amended.

known as field deputies, and, who, unless sooner removed by the

district court as now provided by law, shall hold office during the pleas-

ure of the marshal, except as hereinafter provided, and who shall

each, as his compensation, receive, the gross fees, including mileage, Compensation.

as provided by law, earned by him, not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars per fiscal year, or at that rate for any part of a fiscal

year; and inaddition shall be allowed his actual necessary expenses, not exceeding two dollars a day, while endeavoring to arrest, under process, a person charged with or convicted of crime: Provided, That a field Actual expenses. deputy may elect to receive actual expenses on any trip in lieu of Additional allowmileage: Provided further, That in special cases, where in his judg- ance ment justice requires, the Attorney-General may make an additional allowance, not, however, in any case to make the aggregate annual compensation of any field deputy in excess of two thousand five hundred dollars nor more than the gross fees earned by such field deputy. The marshal, immediately after making any appointment or appoint- Report of appointments under this section, shall report the same to the Attorney-General, stating the facts as distinguished from conclusions constituting the reason for such appointment, and the Attorney-General may at any time cancel any such appointment as the public interest may

require. This Act to take effect from and after July first, nineteen hundred In effectJuly 1, 1911.
and eleven.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 270.-An Act To provide punishment for the falsification of accounts and March 4, 1911.

the making of false reports by persons in the employ of the United States.

[H. R. 25503.]

[Public, No. 510.]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

whoever,

being

an " Government ployees.

em-

officer, clerk, agent, or other person holding any office or employment maPkuinnigsfhalmsee netntrfieosr under the Government of the United States and, being charged with in records, etc.

the duty of keeping accounts or records of any kind, shall, with

intent to deceive, mislead, injure, or defraud the United States or any

person, make in any such account or record any false or fictitious

entry or record of any matter relating to or connected with his duties, or whoever with like intent shall aid or abet any such officer, clerk, Aiding, etc.

1356

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 270-272 . 1911 .

Punishment for makingfalse report of agent, or other

person in so doing;

or whoever, being an officer, clerk,

peuybsl. ic or trust mon- agent, or other person holding any office or employment under the Government of the United States and, being charged with the duty

Alding, etc.

of receiving, holding, or paying over moneys or securities to, for, or on behalf of the United States, or of receiving or holding in trust for any person any moneys or securities, shall, with like intent, make a false report of such moneys or securities, or whoever with like intent shall aid or abet any such officer, clerk, agent, or other person

in so doing, shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars, or

imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [II. K. 25923.]
[Public, No. 511.]

CHAP. 271.-An Act Authorizing the Postmaster-General to advertise for the construction of pneumatic tubes in the city of Cincinnati, State of Ohio.

Postal service.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pneumatic tube ser- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Postmaster-General

vaiuctehorfzoerd.Cincinnati, is hereby authorized to advertise for the construction of double lines

Contract.

of pneumatic tubes, thirty inches in diameter and not exceeding one

mile in length, in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, and to enter into con-

tract for the operation of the same for the transmission of the mails,

Proviso. Condition.

at a rate not exceeding seventeen thousand dollars per mile per annum, until June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and thirteen : Pro-
vided, That no contract shall be entered into until the proposed lines shall have been operated for mail purposes in a satisfactory manner for six months, without cost to the Government.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 272.--An Act Relating to homestead entries in the former Siletz Indian

[H. R. 27298.] Reservation in the State of Oregon.

[Public, No. 512. ]

Public lands.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Homestead entries States of America in Congress assembled, That all pending homestead

on former Siletz In- entries heretofore made within the former Siletz Indian Reservation

dOruegg. Reservation, in Oregon upon which proofs were made prior to December thirtycePrattaienntcsasmeas.yissuein first, nineteen hundred and six, shall be passed to patent in all cases
Requirements. where it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior that the entry was made for the exclusive use and benefit of the entryman, and that the entryman built a house on the land entered and

otherwise improved the same, and actually entered into the occupation thereof and cultivated a portion of said land for the period required by law, and that no part of the land entered has been sold or conveyed, or contracted to be sold or conveyed, by the entryman, and where no

contest or other adverse proceeding was commenced against the entry and notice thereof served upon the entryman prior to the date of sub-

mission of proof thereon, or within two years thereafter, and where

any such entry has heretofore been canceled the same may be rein-

stated upon application filed within six months from the passage of

Provisos.

this Act where at the date of the filing of such application for rein-

Adverse proceed- statement no other entry is of record covering such land: Provided,

ings.

That nothing herein contained shall prevent or forestall any adverse

proceedings against any entry upon any charge of fraud: And pro-

reAqdudiirteido. nalpayment vided further, That any entryman who may make application for patent under the provisions of this Act shall, as an additional condi-

tion precedent to the issuance of such patent, be required to pay to the United States the sum of two dollars and fifty cents per acre for

the land so applied for; and the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to issue such regulations as may be necessary for carrying this Act into effect.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 273, 274. 1911 .

1357

CHAP. 273.-An Act Authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to exchange certain desert lands for lands within national forests in Oregon.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 30280.]

(Public, No. 513.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the State of Oregon is Selections under
hereby authorized to relinquish its selection heretofore made under the Carey Act relin-
terms of the Act of August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety- quished.

four (Twenty-eighth Statutes, page three hundred and seventy-two), Vol. 28, p. 122. and Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto of the following lands:

Section three; east half, east half of west half, southwest quarter Description. of southwest quarter of section four; southwest quarter, west half of

southeast quarter, southeast quarter of southeast quarter of section five; south half of section six; all of sections seven, eight, nine, ten,

fifteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, and twentytwo oftownship twenty-four south, range thirty-three east, Willamette

meridian, containing eight thousand seven hundred and ninety-three

and forty-seven one-hundredths acres ; and the Secretary of the Interior, upon recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, may issue patent to said lands in exchange for and upon reconveyance to the exLcahnadnsgec.onveyed in United States of the following lands within national forests in the State of Oregon:

All of fractional section thirty- six, township twenty-one south, Description.

range twelve east; all of section sixteen, township twenty-one south,

range twelve east; the southeast quarter of section thirty-six, township twenty south, range fourteen east; all of section sixteen, township twenty-three south, range sixteen east; the south half of northwest

quarter, the northwest quarter of northwest quarter, the northeast

quarter of northeast quarter, the south half of section sixteen, township twenty-eight south, range ten east; south half of north half of

section sixteen, township fifteen south, range thirty-one east; north-

west quarter of northwest quarter of section sixteen, township seven-. teen south, range thirty-two east; all of section thirty-six, township

three south, range forty-seven east; all of section sixteen, township

nineteen south, range thirty-one east; southeast quarter of southeast quarter of section sixteen, east half of northeast quarter, west half of northwest quarter of section thirty-six, township twenty south, range

thirty-three east; all of section sixteen, township three south, range forty-one east; south half and northwest quarter of section thirty- six,

township nineteen south, range thirty-two east; north half of section

sixteen, township fourteen south, range thirty-three east; all of sections sixteen and thirty-six, township seven south, range thirty-four east; section sixteen, township eight south, range thirty-two east; all of section thirty-six, township fourteen south, range thirty-five and a half east; all of section thirty-six, township two south, range forty east, Willamette meridian.

Provided, That the timber or undergrowth shall not have been · PCroonvdiistoison. removed from said forest lands: Provided further, That upon recon- Lands added to na-
tional forests. veyance to the United States. the lands shall become parts of the
national forests in which they are situated.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 274. An Act To provide for the entry under bond of exhibits of arts, sciences, and industries.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 30281.]
[Public, No. 514.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That all articles which shall ufMaecrtucrhearnst' EsxacnhdaMnagne-. be imported from foreign countries for the sole purpose of exhibition All articles imported at expositions of the arts, sciences, and industries and products of the saot,lelaydfmiotrteexdhibuintdieonr
soil, mine, and sea, to be held in expositions to be held in nineteen bond free of duty.

hundred and eleven and nineteen hundred and twelve by the Merchants

1358

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CHS. 274-276 . 1911 .

and Manufacturers' Exchange of New York, in the buildings in the

city of New York owned or controlled by the Merchants and Manufacturers' Exchange, a corporation organized under the laws of the

State of New York, upon which there shall be a tariff or customs duty, shall be admitted free of the payment of such duty, customs, fees, or

charges, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury shall

clSoaslee. s for delivery at prescribe; but it shall be lawful at any time during the exposition to sell, for delivery at the close thereof, any goods or property imported

Provisos. Duty on
withdrawn .

for and actually on exhibition in the exposition buildings, subject to such regulations for the security of the revenue and for the collection of import duties as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe : articles Provided, That all such articles, when sold or withdrawn for consumption or use in the United States, shall be subject to the duty, if any, imposed upon such articles by the revenue laws in force at the date of withdrawal ; and on articles which shall have suffered diminution or deterioration from incidental handling and necessary exposure

the duty, if paid, shall be assessed according to the appraised value at the time of withdrawal for consumption or use; and the penalties

prescribed by law shall be enforced against any person guilty of any

inNviotatiimopnlitcoateixohniboif illegal sale or withdrawal: Provided further, That nothing in this

tion.

section contained shall be construed as an invitation, express or

implied, from the Government of the United States to any foreign

Extension of time.

government, state, municipality, corporation, partnership, or individual to import any such articles for the purpose of exhibition at the said exposition.
SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, extend the time of the expositions for a period not exceeding six months after December thirty-first, nineteen hundred and twelve..

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 31652.]
[Public, No. 515.]

CHAP. 275.-An Act To authorize the Central Vermont Railway Company to construct a bridge across the arm of Lake Champlain between the towns of Alburg and Swanton, Vermont.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Lake Champlain. Central Vermont States of America in Congress assembled, That the Central Vermont

Railway Co. may Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State

bridge Missisquoi of Vermont, Bay, Alburg to Swan-

is

hereby authorized

to

construct,

maintain,

and operate

ton, Vt.

a bridge and approaches thereto across Missisquoi Bay, an arm of Lake

Vol. 34, p. 84.

Champlain, at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, between the towns of Alburg and Swanton, in the State of Vermont, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled " An Act to regulate the

Amendment.

construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32251.]
[Public, No. 516.]

CHAP. 276.-An Act Authorizing the sale of portions of the allotments of Nekquel-e-kin, or Wapato John, and Que-til-qua-soon, or Peter, Moses agreementallottees.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
CoWmappaantyo. Irrigation States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Sale of portion of al- Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to sell to the

ltootnmetnot, sfoirn iWrarsighaitniog,n Wapato Irrigation Company, on such terms and conditions as he

project.

may deem for the best interests of the allottees, so much of the lands

in Chelan County, Washington, covered by trust patents issued to Nek-quel-e-kin, or Wapato John, and Que-til-qua-soon, or Peter,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs. 276-278 : 1911 .

1359

Moses agreement allottees numbers eight and ten, under the Act of Congress approved March eighth, nineteen hundred and six, as in
his judgment may be required to advantageously and economically complete and operate its irrigation project now in process of construction in Chelan County, State of Washington, including such land as may be needed for roads, bridges, ditches, flumes, dams, reservoirs, docks, landing places and other works, and shall convey the lands so sold to the said company by patent in fee. The funds derived from the sale of said lands shall be conserved for the respec-

Disposal of proceeds.

tive allottees or invested or expended for their benefit in such manner as the Secretary of the Interior shall determine.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 277.- An Act To extend the time for commencing and completing the
construction of a dam authorized by the Act entitled " An Act permitting the building of a dam across the Mississippi River in the county of Morrison, State of Minnesota," approved June fourth, nineteen hundred and six.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32721.]
[Public, No. 517.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the time for commencing TMiismsiesseixpptienRdievedr.for and completing the construction of the dam, canal, and other struc- dam across,in Morritures authorized by the Act of Congress approved June fourth, nine- sPoinkeCouRnatpyidMsinPno.,wbeer teen hundred and six, and its amendatory Act approved March second, Company. nineteen hundred and seven, to be built across the Mississippi River, Vol . 34, pp. 210, 1220. in Morrison County, Minnesota, is hereby extended one year and three years, respectively, from July first, nineteen hundred and eleven: Provided, That except as may be otherwise provided in the aforesaid Acts, the construction, maintenance, and operation of the said structures therein authorized, shall be subject to, and in accordance with, the provisions of the Act approved June twenty-third, nineteen hun- Vol. 34, p. 386. dred and ten, entitled " An Act to amend an Act entitled ' An Act to
regulate the constructions of dams across navigable waters,' approved June twenty-first, nineteen hundred and six."
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.
Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 278.- An Act To extend the time for the completion of a bridge across the Morris and Cummings Channel, at a point near Aransas Pass, Texas, by the Aransas Harbor Terminal Railway Company.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32883.]
[Public, No. 518.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Morris and CumStates of America in Congress assembled, That the time for completing mings Channel.

the construction of the bridge, authority for which was given the brTiidgmienge, xbtyenAdreadnsfaosr Aransas Harbor Terminal Railway Company, a corporation organ- HarborTerminal Rail-

ized under Texas law, to construct, maintain, and operate a railroad way Co. bridge and approaches thereto across the Morris and Cummings

Channel, at a point near Aransas Pass, Texas, from the mainland to

Harbor Island, authorized by an Act approved May twentieth, nineteen hundred and eight, is hereby extended one year from date of the passage of this Act.

Vol. 35, p. 163.

SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. expressly reserved.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

1360

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS, SESS. III. CHS. 279-281 . 1911 .

March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 279.-An Act Placing M. H. Plunkett, assistant engineer, United States

(H. R. 13384.] Navy, on the retired list with an advanced rank.

[Public, No. 519.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Navy.

States of America in Congress assembled, That M. H. Plunkett, assist-

beM.adHv.aPnlcuendkettotrmaanxk ant engineer, United States Navy, retired with the rank of lieutenant

of lieutenant, retired. (junior grade) may in the discretion of the President, by and with

the advice and consent of the Senate, be placed on the retired list of

the navy in the grade of passed assistant engineer with the rank of

lieutenant, and that this promotion and the increased pay incident thereto shall take effect from the passage of this Act.

Approved, March 4 , 1911.

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32170.]

CHAP. 280.--An Act For the protection of game in the Territory of Alaska.

A[lPausblkiac. , No. 520.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

gaOmpeebnirdsseeaxstoenndfeodr. States of America in Congress assembled, That from and after the

Vol. 35 , P. 103 , passage of this Act it shall be lawful to kill grouse, ptarmigan, shore

amended .

birds, and waterfowl from September first to March first, both inclu-

sive, anywhere in the Territory of Alaska.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 281.-An Act To authorize the Controller Railway and Navigation Com-

[H. R. 32842.] pany to construct two bridges across the Bering River, in the District of Alaska, and

(Public, No. 521.] for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
Alaska, Controller Railway States of America in Congress assembled, That the Controller Railway

and Navigation Com- and Navigation Company, a corporation organized and existing under

ptwaony bmraidygecsonsatcrruocsts the laws of the State of New Jersey, its successors and assigns, be,

Bering River.

and they are hereby, authorized and empowered to construct, main-

tain, and operate, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled

"An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters," approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six, two

bridges across the Bering River, in the District of Alaska, to be

Location.

located as follows: The upper bridge to cross the said Bering River

at a point near the mouth of Stillwater Creek, and the lower bridge

to cross the Bering River at a point about four miles above Bering

Extension ofline. Lake; also to extend its line of railway from the terminus of its line

on the north shore of Controller Bay, as shown on its map of definite

location filed in the Land Department December fourteenth, nineteen

hundred and ten, on and over the tide lands and navigable waters of

Alaska in said Controller Bay to the main channel, and to construct,

build, erect, maintain, use, and operate at the end of such line of ruil-

way, when so extended upon said main channel, under rules and regu-

lations to be prescribed by the Secretary of War, necessary wharves,

docks, slips, waterways, and coal and oil bunkers, provided that the

extent of and the plans for such structures are recommended by the

Chief of Engineers and approved by the Secretary of War, in accord-

Wharves, etc.

ance with the provisions of section ten of the river and harbor Act

Vol. 30, p. 1151.

approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine.

Right of way over tide and shore lands.

SEO. 2. That the said Controller Railway and Navigation Company,

its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized to use, in the con-

struction and maintenance of said extension of said line of railway, a

right of way on, through, and over the tide and shore lands of the

United States actually necessary to connect its railway with the navi-

gable waters in said Controller Bay, not to exceed one hundred feet on each side of the center line of such extension of said line of rail-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CHS. 281 , 282: 1911 .

1361

way: Provided, That the easement hereby authorized may be exclu- CProonvdiistoi.ons. sively exercised so long as said railway is maintained and operated for railroad purposes, but that nothing in this Act contained shall be con-

strued as impairing the right of the United States, or of any State

that may hereafter be erected out of this District, to regulate the use eRtec.gulations,charges, of said right of way and the pier or dock herein authorized to be constructed, nor the right of the United States or of any such State to

fix reasonable charges for the use of any pier, dock, or wharf constructed or maintained hereunder, nor shall it in anywise interfere with the authority on the part of the Secretary of the Interior to

accord wharfage and other privileges in front of reserved areas, as

provided in the Act of May fourteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety- Vol . 30, p. 409.

eight, entitled "An Act extending the homestead laws and provi"ding

for right of way for railroads in Alaska, and for other purposes.'

Title not trans-

SEC. 3. That the title to all lands occupied under this Act shall ferred.

remain in the United States, subject to the use hereby authorized,

and the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

CHAP. 282.--An Act To incorporate the National McKinley Birthplace Memorial Association .

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32907.]
[Public, No. 522.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the

United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following- DNiasttiroinctalof CMoclKuimnblieay. named persons , namely, J. G. Butler, junior, of Ohio ; Myron T. Her- Birthplace Memorial
rick, of Ohio; J. G. Schmidlapp, of Ohio ; John G. Milburn, of New AsIsnoccioartpioorna.tors. York; and W. A. Thomas, of Ohio, their associates and successors,

duly chosen, are hereby incorporated and declared to be a body

corporate of the District of Columbia by the name of the National

McKinley Birthplace Memorial Association, and by such name shall

be known and have perpetual succession with the powers, limitations, and restrictions herein contained.

SEO. 2. That the object of the corporation shall be to perpetuate Object. the name and achievements of William McKinley, late President of the United States of America, by erecting and maintaining in the

city of Niles, in the State of Ohio, the place of his birth, a monument and memorial building.
SEC. 3. That the management and direction of the affairs of the Management.

corporation and the control and disposition of its property and funds shall be vested in a board of trustees, five in number, to be composed

of the individuals named in section one of this Act, who shall constitute the first board of trustees. Vacancies caused by death, resig-

nation, or otherwise, shall be filled by the remaining trustees in such manner as shall be prescribed from time to time by the by-laws of the corporation. The persons so elected shall thereupon become trustees and also members of the corporation.
SEC. 4. That said corporation shall hold its meetings in such place

Meetings

as the incorporators or their successors shall determine. SEC. 5. That the board of trustees shall be entitled to take, hold, Powers of trustees.
and administer any securities, funds, or property, real or personal ,

which may at any time be given, devised, or bequeathed to them or

to the corporation for the purposes herein defined, and to purchase

necessary lands for site and to sell and convey by good and sufficient deed any other lands that may be given, devised, or bequeathed to

the corporation, and to convert the same into money; with full

power from time to time to adopt a common seal, to appoint such

officers and agents, whether members of the board of trustees or otherwise, as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the objects

1362

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CS. 282, 283. 1911.

of the corporation; with full power to adopt by-laws and such rules

or regulations as shall be deemed necessary to secure the safe and

convenient transaction of the business of the corporation ; and with

full power and discretion to invest any principal and deal with and

expend the income of the corporation in such manner as in the

judgment of the trustees will best promote the objects hereinbefore

set forth ; and, in general, to have and use all the powers and authority

necessary and proper to promote such objects and carry out the pur-

poses of the corporation. The trustees shall have power to hold as investments any securities given, assigned , or transferred to them or

to the corporation by any person, persons, or corporation, and to retain such investments, and to invest any sums or amounts from time to time in such securities and in such form and manner as may

be permitted to trustees or to charitable or literary corporations for

investment according to the laws of the State of Ohio, or in such

securities as may be.authorized for investment by any deed of trust

or by any act or deed of gift or last will and testament.

Exemption from taxation.

SEC. 6. That all personal property and funds of the corporation

held, or used for the purposes hereof, pursuant to the provisions of

this Act, whether of principal or income, shall, so long as the same

shall be so used, be exempt from taxation by the United States or any

Proviso. Restriction on prop-

Territory or district thereof :

Provided, That said corporation shall not

erty holding.

accept, own or hold directly or indirectly any property real or personal

except such as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes

of its creation as defined in this Act.

Expenses of trustees.

SEC. 7. That the services of the trustees, when acting as such, shall

be gratuitous, but the corporation may provide for the reasonable

expenses incurred by the trustees in attending meetings or otherwise

in the performance of their duties.

Acceptance of charter.

SEC. 8. That this charter shall take effect upon its being accepted

by a majority vote of the incorporators named herein, who shall be

present at the first meeting of the corporation, due notice of which

meeting shall be given to each of the incorporators named herein , and

Alterations, etc.

a notice of such acceptance shall be given by said corporation causing a certificate to that effect signed by its president and secretary to be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of the District of Columbia.
SEC. 9. That Congress may from time to time alter, repeal, or

modify this Act of incorporation, but no contract or individual right

made or acquired shall thereby be divested or impaired.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 32213.]
(Public, No. 523. ]

CHAP. 283.-An Act To authorize the city of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, to construct a bridge across the Piscataqua River.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PPiosrctastmaoquutnh,RNi.verH.., States of America in Congress assembled, That authority is hereby

may bridge.

given the city of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, or its assigns, a cor-

Vol. 34, p. 84. Amendment.

poration organized under the laws of the State of New Hampshire, to construct, maintain, and operate a bridge and approaches thereto across the Piscataqua River at a point suitable to the interests of navigation, at or near Portsmouth, in the county of Rockingham, in the State of New Hampshire, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled "An Act to regulate the construction of bridges over navigable waters, " approved March twenty-third, nineteen hundred and six.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby expressly reserved.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cs: 284, 285. 1911 .

1363

CHAP. 284.-An Act To authorize the Manhattan City and Interurban Railway Company to construct and operate an electric railway line on the Fort Riley Military

March 4, 1911. [H. R. 31728.]

Reservation, and for other purposes.

[Public, No. 524.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of the, MFoarnthaRtitleayn,CKiatnysa.nd United States is hereby given to the Manhattan City and Interurban Interurban Railway Railway Company, a corporation existing under the laws of the State Crioghmtpoafnwyaygraacnrtoesds of Kansas, to locate, construct, maintain, and operate a line of elec- reservation.
tric railway upon the military reservation of Fort Riley, in Geary County, State of Kansas, upon such location and under such regu- Approval, etc. lations and conditions as shall be approved by the Secretary of War.
SEC. 2. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is hereby Amendment. specially reserved.
Approved, March 4, 1911 .

CHAP. 285.--An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the March 4, 1911.

Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, [H. R. 32909.]

and for other purposes.

[Public, No. 525.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the following sums

be,

peSnusnedsry

civil exappropria-

and the same are hereby, appropriated, for the objects hereinafter tons.

expressed, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred

and twelve, namely :

EXECUTIVE.

Executive.

To enable the President to secure information to assist him in the President. To secure informa-
discharge of the duties imposed upon him by section two of the Act tion to assist in adentitled " An Act to provide revenues, equalize duties, and encourage ministering tariff law, the industries of the United States, and for other purposes," approved Ante, p. 83. August fifth, nineteen hundred and . nine, and the officers of the
Government in administering the customs laws, including such investigations of the cost of production of commodities, covering cost of
material, fabrication and every other element of such cost of production, as are authorized by said Act, and including the employment of such persons as may be required for those purposes; and to enable him to do any and all things in connection therewith authorized by law, or if a Tariff Board be established by law then for the purpose of meeting the expenditures authorized by the law, two hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars, together with the balance unexpended
July first next of the appropriation made for these purposes for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven.
The Tariff Board, if established by law, shall make report to each woRoelpeonrtscohnedwuoloel. and House of the Congress on the wool and woolen schedule not later than
the first Monday in December, nineteen hundred and eleven. To enable the President to continue, by the employment of account- Inquiry into more effective business
ants and experts from official and private life, such officials to receive methods in departno compensation beyond their official salaries to more effectively ments,etc. inquire into the methods of transacting the public business of the Government in the several executive departments and other Government establishments, with the view of inaugurating new or changing old methods of transacting such public business so as to attain greater efficiency and economy therein, and to ascertain and recommend to Congress what changes in law may be necessary to carry into effect such results of his inquiry as can not be carried into effect by Executive action alone, and for each and every purpose necessary hereunder, including the employment of personal services at Washington, or Ante, p. 703. elsewhere, seventy-five thousand dollars, together with any unexpended balance of the appropriation made for this purpose for the

1364

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESs. III. CH . 285. 1911 .

beRre3p1o,r1t911b.y Decem- fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven. And a report hereunder shall be submitted to Congress at the first regular session of the Sixty-

second Congress and not later than December thirty-first, nineteen hundred and eleven, which said report shall set forth the progress

made, the results attained, and such recommendations therein as may

be deemed advisable.

Canadian boundary waters commission.

For salaries and expenses, including salaries of Commissioners, and

Expenses.

salaries of clerks appointed by the Commissioners on the part of the

United States with the approval solely of the Secretary of State,

including rental and furnishing, after the passage of this Act, of offices at Washington, District of Columbia, and necessary traveling expenses, and for the one-half of all reasonable and necessary joint expenses

Post, p. 2448

of the International Joint Commission incurred under the terms of the treaty between the United States and Great Britain concerning

the use of boundary waters between the United States and Canada,

and other purposes, signed January eleventh, nineteen hundred and

ABnatlea,npc.e7a6v6a.ilable, nine, seventy-five thousand dollars, together with the balance unexpended July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, of the appropriation

Proviso. Salaries.

made for said Joint Commission for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and eleven: Provided, That the salaries of the members of said_commission on the part of the United States shall be fixed by the Presi-

dent, and the amount appropriated for the payment of salaries and

other expenses hereunder shall be disbursed under the direction of the

Secretary of State ; that said commission or any member thereof shall

teProowatehrs, teotc.adminis have power to administer oaths and to take evidence on oath whenever deemed necessary in any proceeding or inquiry or matter within

its jurisdiction under said treaty, and said commission shall be authorized to compel the attendance of witnesses in any proceedings before

it or the production of books and papers when necessary by application to the circuit court of the United States for the circuit within

which such session is held, which court is hereby empowered and directed to make all orders and issue all processes necessary and

appropriate for that purpose.

feIrnetnecrenaotniolneatltercsonof; INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE TO PROMOTE UNIFORM LEGISLATION

exchange.

CONCERNING LETTERS OF EXCHANGE.

Participation . Vol. 35, p. 680.

For the participation by the United States in the adjourned meeting at The Hague, in nineteen hundred and eleven, of the International Congress for the purpose of promoting uniform legislation concerning letters of exchange, including compensation and actual necessary traveling and subsistence expenses of an expert delegate, three thousand dollars, to be immediately available.

Treasury Depart. ment.
Public buildings.

UNDER THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT. PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Abbeville, S. c.

Abbeville, South Carolina, post office: For a site and continuation

Aberdeen, Wash. of the erection of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Aberdeen, Washington, post office : For acquisition of site under

Alameda, Cal.

present limit, twelve thousand five hundred dollars. Alameda, California, post office : For site and continuation of

Albany, Oreg.

building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Albany, Oregon, post office: For site and continuation of building

Albion, Mich.

under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Albion, Michigan, post office For site and commencement of build-

ing under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars. MeAxl.buquerque, X. Albuquerque, New Mexico, post office : For completion of building

under present limit , twenty thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1365

Alliance, Nebraska, post office: Foracquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Alliance, Ohio, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Alpena, Michigan, post office : For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.
Amarillo, Texas, post office and courthouse: For site and commencement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Amsterdam, New York, post office : For completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Ann Arbor, Michigan, post office : For acquisition of additional
land under present limit, seven thousand dollars. Anniston, Alabama, post office : For continuation of wall and for
other purposes under present limit, three thousand two hundred dollars.

Alliance, Nebr. Alliance, Ohio. Alpena, Mich. Amarillo, Tex.
Amsterdam, N. Y. Ann Arbor, Mich. Anniston, Ala.

Anoka, Minnesota, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Antigo, Wisconsin, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Appleton, Wisconsin, post office : For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars, together with the unexpended balance of the appropriation made for site, which unexpended balance is reappropriated and made available for completion of building.
Ardmore, Oklahoma, post office and courthouse : For site and commencement of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.

Anoka, Minn. Antigo, Wis. Appleton, Wis.
Ardmore, Okla.

Argenta, Arkansas, post office : For acquisition of site under pres- Argenta,Ark. ent limit, ten thousand dollars.

Arkadelphia, Arkansas, post office: For acquisition of site under Arkadelphia, Ark. present limit, five thousand dollars.
Arkansas City. Arkansas City, Kansas, post office: For site and commencement of Kans. building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars."

Asbury Park, New Jersey, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, thirty-three thousand dollars."
Ashland, Kentucky, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, eight thousand dollars.

Asbury Park,N.J. Ashland , Ky.

Ashland, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Ashtabula, Ohio, post office: For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Ashland, Ohio. Ashtabula, Ohio.

Athol, Massachusetts, post office: For site and continuation of Athol, Mass,

building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Atlanta, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present Atlanta,Tex.
limit, five thousand dollars. Auburn, N.Y.
Auburn, New York, post office and courthouse: For commence-

ment of enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Augusta, Georgia, post office and courthouse: The Secretary of Augusta, Ga. Exchange ofsiteau-
the Treasury is hereby authorized and empowered to exchange and thorized.

convey the new Federal building site in the city of Augusta, Georgia,

bounded by Walker, Ford, and Telfair Streets and the alley on the

west, forthe site belonging to said city of Augusta bounded by Walker,

Ford, Telfair, and Jackson Streets, and to pay to said city such

amount in addition, not exceeding sixteen thousand dollars, as he

may deem equitable : Provided, That the exchange above authorized

Prorisos. Purchase of present

shall be contingent upon the agreement of said city of Augusta to bcounidlidtiinogn.by city a

purchase the present Federal building and the site thereof at their

fair market value, to be ascertained by the Secretary of the Treasury; which sale of the present post office site and building to said city is hereby authorized to be made upon such terms as the Secretary of

88740°-VOL 36, T 1-11-88

1366

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 285. 1911.

the Treasury may deem to the best interests of the United States,

after the completion of the new Federal building authorized by the p. P6u9b5l. ic laws,2d sess., Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, to be constructed
in the city of Augusta, and to pay the proceeds of such sale into the

Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts : Provided, That

nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as authorizing an increase in the present limit of cost of said Federal building as fixed by section

Aurora, Nebr. Austin, Tex. Bakersfield, Cal. Baltimore, Md.

fifteen of the public buildings Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten.
Aurora, Nebraska, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, six thousand dollars.
Austin, Texas, post office : For commencement of erection of building under present limit, one hundred thousand dollars.
Bakersfield, California, post office: For acquisition of site under présent limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Baltimore, Maryland, immigrant station : For site and commence-

ment of building under present limit, one hundred and ten thousand dollars .

Barnesville, Ga. Barre, Vt. Bartow, Fla. Basin, Wyo. Bath, Me.

Barnesville, Georgia, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Barre, Vermont, post office : For continuation of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Bartow, Florida, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Basin, Wyoming, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, six thousand dollars.
Bath, Maine, post office and customhouse: For completion of the

Bay City, Tex. Bayonne, N. J. Beardstown, Ill. Beatrice, Nebr. Beaver Falls, Pa.
Bedford, Pa. Beeville, Tex. Bellaire, Ohio. Belleville, Ill. Bellingham, Wash.

enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Bay City, Texas, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Bayonne, New Jersey, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Beardstown, Illinois, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, thirteen thousand dollars.
Beatrice, Nebraska, post office : For acquisition of additional land under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, post office : For the completion of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, five thousand dollars."
Bedford, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Beeville, Texas, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Bellaire, Ohio, post office : For a site and commencement of the erection of building under present limit, nine thousand dollars.
Belleville, Illinois, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Bellingham, Washington, post office and courthouse: For continu-

ation of the building under present limit, one hundred and twentyfive thousand dollars.

Belton, Tex.

Belton, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present

limit, five thousand dollars. Bennettsville, S. C. Bennettsville, South Carolina, post office: For site and commence-

Berkeley, Cal.

ment of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars . Berkeley, California, post office: For site and commencement of

Berlin, N. H.

building under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars. Berlin, New Hampshire, post office : For acquisition of site under

Bethlehem, Pa

present limit, fifteen thousand dollars. Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of site under

present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1367

Beverly, Massachusetts, post office: For completion of building Beverly, Mass. under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.

Big Rapids, Michigan, post office: For site and commencement of Big Rapids, Mich. building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Big Stone Gap, Virginia, post office and courthouse: For site and Big Stone Gap, Va.

completion of building under present limit, eighty-five thousand dollars.
Billings, Montana, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Birmingham, Alabama, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, two hundred thousand dollars.
Bismarck, North Dakota, post office and courthouse: For site and

Billings, Mont. Birmingham, Ala. Bismarck, N. Dak.

continuation of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars. Blackwell, Oklahoma, post office: For site and commencement of
building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Bloomington, Indiana, post office: For site and continuation of
building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Blackwell, Okla. Bloomington, Ind.

Blue Island, Illinois, post office: For site and commencement of Blue Island, Ill. building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.

Bonham, Texas, post office: For a site and continuation of the Bonham, Tex.

erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Boston, Massachusetts, appraisers' stores: For site and continua-
tion of building under present limit, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Boston, Massachusetts, customhouse : For continuation of the en-

BApopsrtaoins,eMrass' sstores. Customhouse.

largement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, five hundred thousand dollars.
Bowling Green, Kentucky, post office and courthouse: For site and Bowling Green, Ky.

completion of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Boyne City, Michigan, post office: For acquisition of site under Boyne City, Mich. present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Bozeman, Montana, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Braddock, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and continuation of
building under present limit, eighty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Bozeman, Mont. Braddock, Pa.

Bradford, Pennsylvania, post office: For completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Brattleboro, Vermont, post office and courthouse: For site and continuation of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Bradford, Pa. Brattleboro, Vt.

Brazil, Indiana, post office : For site and completion of building . Brazil, Ind . under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Brigham City, Utah, post office : For site and commencement of Brigham City, Utah. building under present limit, seven thousand dollars.
Bristol, Connecticut, post office: For site and continuation of build- Bristol,Conn. ing under present limit, fifty-four thousand dollars.
Bristol, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and continuation of BPrriosvtioslo,.Pa. building under present límit, forty thousand dollars : Provided, That thCorhiaznegd.e of site authe Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and New site. . empowered, in his discretion, in lieu of erecting the said post office
building upon the site at the south corner of Pond and Mulberry Streets, to exchange said site for (a) a suitable site in the vicinity of the railroad station about to be established in the neighborhood of
Prospect Street, Beaver Dam Road and Jefferson Avenue in the said borough of Bristol on the new alignment in said borough of the

Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad, and (b) the payment by the owner or owners of such new site to said Secretary of such amount in cash as may equal the fair difference in value, if any, between such sites. In the event of such exchange, the Secretary of the Treasury

Payment byowners.

1368

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

is authorized and directed to erect the post office building upon the site so acquired, and to execute a quitclaim deed to the person or persons

conveying such new site to the United States, conveying all rights, title, claim, and interest in the United States in and to said site at the south corner of Pond and Mulberry Streets . And in the event of the Secretary of the Treasury receiving a payment in such exchange,

Bristol, R.I.

the amount thereof in addition to the foregoing sum of forty thousand dollars is hereby appropriated towards the erection of said post office building.
Bristol, Rhode Island, post office and customhouse : For the com-

pletion of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement

of the building under the present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Bronx Borough, New York City.

Bronx, New York, post office : For acquisition of site under

·

present limit, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Brookhaven, Miss. Brookhaven, Mississippi, post office: For site and completion of

Pryan, Tex.

building under present limit, thirty-three thousand dollars. Bryan, Texas, post office : For site and commencement of building

under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Buckhannon,W.Va. Buckhannon, West Virginia, post office : For acquisition of site

under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Buffalo, Wyo.

Buffalo, Wyoming, post office : For acquisition of site under

present limit, seven thousand dollars.

Burlington, N.C.

Burlington, North Carolina, post office: For acquisition of site

Cadillac, Mich.

under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Cadillac, Michigan, post office : For site and commencement of

building under present limit, twenty-two thousand dollars.

Cambridge, Ohio.

Cambridge, Ohio, post office: For site and commencement of

Camden, S. C.

building under present limit, eight thousand dollars. Camden, South Carolina, post office: For site and commencement

of building under present limit, thirteen thousand five hundred dollars. Canandaigua, N. Y. Canandaigua, New York, post office : For completion of building,
seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Canton, Ill.

Canton, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of build-

Canton, Miss.

ing under present limit, twenty-one thousand dollars. Canton, Mississippi, post office: For site and commencement of

Carbondale, Pa.

building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Carbondale, Pennsylvania, post office : For completion of building

under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Caribou, Me.

Caribou, Maine, post office: For acquisition of site under present

limit, ten thousand dollars.

Carnegie, Pa.

Carnegie, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and commencement

of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Catlettsburg, Ky.

Catlettsburg, Kentucky, post office and courthouse : For comple-

Chadron, Nebr.

tion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Chadron, Nebraska, post office : For acquisition of site under pres-

ent limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Chambersburg, Pa. Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, post office : For completion of build-

ing under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Chanute, Kans.

Chanute, Kansas, post office : For site and commencement of

Charleroi, Pa.

building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars. Charleroi, Pennsylvania, post office: For a site and continuation of

the erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Charles City,Iowa. Charles City, Iowa, post office: For acquisition of site under present

limit, ten thousand dollars. Charleston,WI' l'A.
Charleston, West Virginia, post office and courthouse : For con-

tinuation of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement

of the building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars. Rent.
For rent of temporary quarters at Charleston, West Virginia, for accommodation of Government officials, four thousand five hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1369

Charlotte, Michigan, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Charlotte, North Carolina, post office and courthouse: For commencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Charlotte, Mich. Charlotte, N. C.

Chelsea, Massachusetts, post office : For site and completion of Chelsea, Mass. building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Chicago, Illinois, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five hundred thousand dollars.
Chico, California, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Cicero, Illinois, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand dollars.
Clarksdale, Mississippi, post office: For site and commencement of

Chicago, Ill. Chico, Cal. Cicero, Ill. Clarksdale, Miss.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Clay Center, Kansas, post office : For site and completion of build- Clay Center, Kans. ing under present limit, fifty-five thousand dollars:

Cleburne, Texas, post -office: For additional amount for completion Cleburne, Tex. of building, thirty thousand dollars.
Cody, Wyoming, post office: For acquisition of site under present Cody, Wyo.
limit, six thousand dollars. Coeur d'Alene,
Coeur D'Alene, Idaho, post office and courthouse : For site and Idaho.

commencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Coffeyville, Kansas, post office: For site and completion of build- Coffeyville, Kans. ing under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.

Collinsville, Illinois, post office: For site and commencement of Collinsville, Ill. building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Colorado Springs, Colorado , post office and courthouse : For site CoClool.orado Springs, and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Columbia South Carolina, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, seventy-five thousand dollars.
Columbus, Indiana, post office: For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Columbia, S. C. Columbus, Ind.

Columbus, Ohio, post office and courthouse: For completion of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building underpresent limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
For rent of temporary quarters at Columbus, Ohio, for the accommodation of Government officials, ten thousand dollars.
Conneaut, Ohio, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Connellsville, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, forty-two thousand dollars.
Cookeville, Tennessee, post office and courthouse: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Columbus, Ohio. Rent. Conneaut, Ohio. Connellsville, Pa. Cookeville, Tenn.

Cordele, Georgia, post office: For site and completion of building Cordele, Ga. under present limit, fifty-two thousand five hundred dollars.
Corpus Christi, Texas, post office and customhouse : For site and Corpus Christi, Tex.

continuation of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Cortland, New York, post office : For the commencement of the
erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Council Bluffs, Iowa, post office and courthouse : For completion
of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, nineteen thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Cortland , N. Y. Council Bluffs,

For rent of temporary quarters at Council Bluffs, Iowa, for the Rent. accommodation of Government officials, two thousand dollars.
.Covington, Tennessee, post office : For site and commencement of Covington, Tenn.

building under present limit, nine thousand dollars.

1370

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 285. 1911 .

Crowley, La. The Dalles, Oreg. Danbury, Conn.
Danville, Ill. Danville, Va. Darlington, S. C. Dayton, Ohio.
De Land, Fla. Delavan, Wis. Del Rio, Tex.
Denison, Tex. Denver, Colo. De Soto, Mo. Dickinson, N. Dak. Douglas, Ariz. Dowagiac, Mich. Dublin, Ga. Dubois, Pa. Duluth, Minn. Dunkirk, N.Y. Duquoin, Ill.
Durango, Colo. Dyersburg, Tenn. Eagle Pass, Tex. Easton, Pa. East Orange, N. J. East Pittsburg, Pa. Edwardsville, Ill.

Crowley, Louisiana, post office: For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Dalles, The, Oregon, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.
Danbury, Connecticut, post office: For site and commencement of the erection of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Danville, Illinois, post office and courthouse : For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For rent of temporary quarters at Danville, Virginia, for the accommodation of Government officials, one thousand dollars.
Darlington, South Carolina, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Dayton, Ohio, post office and courthouse: For completion of addition to building under present limit, in addition to the appropriation heretofore made for site, one hundred and five thousand dollars.
De Land, Florida, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Delavan, Wisconsin, post office : For site and commencement of building under present límit, thirteen thousand dollars.
Del Rio, Texas, post office and courthouse: For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Denison, Texas, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Denver, Colorado, post office : For continuation of building under present limit, one million dollars.
De Soto, Missouri, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Dickinson, North Dakota, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Douglas, Arizona, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Dowagiac, Michigan, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Dublin, Georgia, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, forty-one thousand dollars.
Dubois, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ' twenty-five thousand dollars.
Duluth, Minnesota, post office and courthouse: For acquisition of additional land under present limit, ninety-five thousand dollars.
Dunkirk, New York, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Duquoin, Illinois, post office : For additional ground and commencement of the erection of building under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Durango, Colorado , post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Dyersburg, Tennessee, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, thity-five thousand dollars.
Eagle Pass, Texas, post office and customhouse: For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Easton, Pennsylvania, post office : For completion of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.
East Orange, New Jersey, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, sixty thousand dollars.
East Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Edwardsville, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1371

Ellensburg, Washington, post office : For acquisition of site under Ellensburg, Wash. present limit, seven thousand dollars.

Ellsworth, Maine, post office and customhouse : For completion of Ellsworth, Me. the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, two thousand dollars.

El Paso, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present El Paso, Tex.
limit, sixty thousand dollars. El Reno, Okla.
El Reno, Oklahoma, post office: For site and commencement of

building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Elwood, Indiana, post office: For a site and commencement of the Elwood, Ind.

erection of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Elyria, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present Elyria, Ohio.

limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Enid, Oklahoma, post office and courthouse: For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Ennis, Texas, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Enid, Okla. Ennis, Tex.

Ensley, Alabama, post office: For site and completion of building Ensley, Ala.

under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Eufaula, Alabama, post office: For site and continuation of Eufaula, Ala.

building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Eureka Springs, Arkansas, post office: For site and commencement EurekaSprings,Ark.
of building under present limit, four thousand dollars. Evanston, Ill.
Evanston, Illinois, post office: For commencement of the enlarge-

ment, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present
· limit, thirty thousand dollars. Everett, Washington, post office and customhouse : For site and Everett, Wash.

continuation of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Excelsior Springs,
Excelsior Springs, Missouri, post office : For site and commence- Mo. ment of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Falls City, Nebraska, post office : For acquisition of site under Falla City, Nebr.
present limit, six thousand dollars.

Faribault, Minnesota, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Fayetteville, Tennessee, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Florence, Alabama, post office: For continuation of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

Faribault, Minn. Fayetteville, Tenn. Florence, Ala.

Fordyce, Arkansas, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Fort Collins, Colorado, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Fort Dodge, Iowa, post office : For completion of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
For rental of temporary quarters at Fort Dodge, Iowa, for accommodation of Government officials, three thousand dollars.

Fordyce, Ark. Fort Atkinson, Wis. Fort Collins, Colo.
Fort Dodge, Iowa. Rent.

Fort Morgan, Colorado, post office: For acquisition of site under Fort Morgan, Colo. present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Franklin, Louisiana, post office : For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Franklin, Virginia, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.

Franklin La. Franklin, Va.

Frederick, Maryland, post office:, For acquisition of site under pres- Frederick, Md. ent limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Fremont, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, disregard the provision requiring forty feet open space for fire protection as to this building..

Fremont, Ohio. POrpoevnissop. ace.

1372

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Frostburg, Md.

Frostburg, Maryland, post office : For site and continuation of

Fulton, Ky.

building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Fulton, Kentucky, post office : For site and commencement of

Fulton, Mo.

building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Fulton, Missouri, post office : For site and commencement of build-

ing under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Gadsden, Ala.

Gadsden, Alabama, post office : For a site and continuation of the

Gaffney, S. C.

erection of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars. Gaffney, South Carolina, post office: For site and continuation

Galveston, Tex.

of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Galveston, Texas, appraiser's stores : For commencement of the

enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building

under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Garden City, Kans. Garden City, Kansas, post office : For site and commencement of

Gardiner, Me.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars. Gardiner, Maine, post office : For site and commencement of

Gary , Ind . Gastonia, N. C.

building under present limit, seven thousand dollars. Gary, Indiana, post office : For site and commencement of building
under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Gastonia, North Carolina, post office : For a site and continuation

Georgetown, Ky. Gettysburg, Pa. Glens Falls, N. Y.

of the erection of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Georgetown, Kentucky, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, post office : For completion of building under present limit, one hundred thousand dollars.
Glens Falls, New York, post office : For site and commencement of

Globe. Ariz.

building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Globe, Arizona, post office and courthouse : For acquisition of site

Goshen, Ind. Gouverneur, N. Y.

under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars. Goshen, Indiana, post office : For site and continuation of building
under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars. Gouverneur, New York, post office : For site and commencement of

Granite City, Ill. building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars. Granite City, Illinois, post office : For site and continuation of

building under present limit, fifty-five thousand dollars. Great Bend, Kans.
Great Bend, Kansas, post office: For site and continuation of build-

Great Falls, Mont. ing under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Great Falls, Montana, post office and courthouse: For site and com-

Greenfield, Mass. pletion of building under present limit, ninety thousand dollars. Greenfield, Massachusetts, post office : For site and commencement

Green River, Wyo. Greensburg, Pa.

of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Green River, Wyoming, post office: For acquisition of site under
present limit, six thousand dollars.
Greensburg, Pennsylvania, post office: For completion of building

under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Greenwood, Miss.
Greenwood, Mississippi, post office : For site and completion of build-

Grenada, Miss.

ing under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Grenada, Mississippi, post office : For site and commencement of

Griffin, Ga.

building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Griffin, Georgia, post office : For completion of building under pres-

Grinnell, Iowa.

ent limit, ten thousand dollars.
Grinnell, Iowa, post office: For acquisition of site, fifteen thousand dollars.

Guthrie, Okla.

Guthrie, Oklahoma, post office and courthouse : For commencement

of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building

under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Hackensack, N. J. Hackensack, New Jersey, post office: For acquisition of site under

Hallowell Me.

present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars . Hallowell, Maine, post office : For acquisition of site under present

limit, twenty thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1373

Hammond, Louisiana, post office : For acquisition of site under Hammond, La. present limit, five thousand dollars.

Hampton, Virginia, post office : For site and commencement of Hampton, Va. building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Hanford, California, post office : For site and commencement of Hanford, Cal. building under present limit, seventeen thousand dollars.
Hanover, Pennsylvania, post office: For site and commencement Hanover, Pa.
of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, post office and courthouse: For the Harrisburg, Pa.
commencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improve-
ment of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Hendersonville ,
Hendersonville, North Carolina, post office: For site and com- N.C.

mencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars:

Hiawatha, Kansas, post office: For acquisition of site under present Hiawatha, Kans. limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Hillsboro, Texas, post office: For a site and continuation of the Hillsboro, Tex.

erection of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Hillsdale, Michigan, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Hilo, Hawaii, post office, customhouse, and courthouse: For the

Hillsdale, Mich.

commencement of the erection of building under present limit, one

hundred thousand dollars.

The

Secretary

of the Treasury

is authorized,

in

his

discretion,

to

Special architect for plans, etc.

select and employ a special architect or architects to prepare the

designs, plans, drawings, specifications, estimates, and so forth, for the post office, customhouse, and courthouse at Hilo, Hawaii ; and to pay for such services at such prices or rates of compensation as he may deem just and proper, and not in excess of the customary and prevailing professional charges for such services, from the appropriation for "General expenses of public buildings " available at the time payment for the particular service is due : Provided, That the Super- DPruotriiesso.of Supervisvising Architect of the Treasury shall be the representative of the ing Architect Government in all matters connected with the erection and completion of the building, and shall perform with respect thereto all the duties that now pertain to his office, except the preparation of the designs, plans, drawings, specifications, estimates, and so forth, for the building.

Holdrege, Nebraska, post office: For site and completion of build- Holdrege, Nebr. ing under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Holland, Michigan, post office : For site and commencement of Holland, Mich. building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.

Holly Springs, Mississippi, post office: For acquisition of site under Holly Springs, Miss. present limit, five thousand dollars.

Holton, Kansas, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Homestead, Pennsylvania, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.
Honolulu, Hawaii, post office, courthouse, and customhouse: For continuation of the building under present limit, one hundred and fifty thousand dollar.

Holton, Kans. Homestead, Pa. Honolulu, Hawaii.

Humboldt, Tennessee, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.
Huntington, Indiana, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Huntington, West Virginia, post office and courthouse: For acquisition of additional ground under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Humboldt, Tenn. Huntingdon, Pa. Huntington, Ind. Huntington, W. Va.

Huntsville, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present Huntsville, Tex. limit, five thousand dollars.

1374

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 285. 1911 .

Huron, S. Dak.

Huron, South Dakota, post office : For site and continuation of

building under present limit, fifty-five thousand dollars. Idaho Falls, Idaho. Idaho Falls, Idaho, post office : For site and commencement of

building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Independence, Mo.
Independence, Missouri, post office : For completion of building

under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Ishpeming, Mich. Ishpeming, Michigan, post office : For site and commencement of

building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Jackson, Ky.

Jackson, Kentucky, post office and courthouse : For site and com-

Jackson, Mich.

mencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Jackson, Michigan, post office : For additional amount for comple-

Jackson, Ohio. Jamestown, N. Dak. Jasper, Ala. Jellico, Tenn. Jennings, La.

tion of extension and rebuilding of building, ten thousand dollars. Jackson, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present
limit, ten thousand dollars.
Jamestown, North Dakota, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Jasper, Alabama, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Jellico, Tennessee, post office : For acquisition of site, ten thousand dollars.
Jennings, Louisiana, post office: For site and commencement of

building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Jersey City, N. J. Jersey City, New Jersey, post office : For additional land and con-

tinuation of building under present limit, one hundred thousand dollars.

Johnstown, Pa.

Johnstown, Pennsylvania, post office : For site and continuation of

Juneau, Alaska. building under present limit, torty thousand dollars. Executive mansion. Juneau, Alaska, executive mansion: For site and completion of
Territorial executive mansion, furnishings, library, and museum, under

Post office, etc.

present limit, forty thousand dollars. Juneau, Alaska, post office and customhouse: For site and com-

mencement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Kalispell, Mont.

Kalispell , Montana, post office : For acquisition of site under present

limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Kansas City, Kans. Kansas City, Kansas, post office: For completion of the enlarge-

ment, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under

present limit, fifty-six thousand dollars.

Rent.

For rent of temporary quarters at Kansas City, Kansas, for the

Keene, N. H. Key West, Fla.

accommodation of Government officials, three thousand dollars. Keene, New Hampshire, post office: For completion of building
under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Key West, Florida, marine hospital: For rebuilding breakwater and

gangway and for new concrete building to replace the several small

frame buildings wrecked in hurricane of October seventeenth, nine-

teen hundred and ten, and for building for officers' quarters , forty thousand dollars.

Kokomo, Ind.

Kokomo, Indiana, post office : For completion of building under

Laconia, N. H.

present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Laconia, New Hampshire, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

La Fayette, La.

La Fayette, Louisiana, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars .

Lagrange, Ga. La Junta, Colo. Lake City, Minn. Lancaster, Ky.

Lagrange, Georgia, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
La Junta, Colorado, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, one hundred dollars.
Lake City, Minnesota, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, eleven thousand dollars.
Lancaster, Kentucky, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1375

Lancaster, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of additional Lancaster, Pa.
land and extension of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Lander, Wyoming, post office : For completion of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Lansing, Michigan, post office: For the commencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Laporte, Indiana, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.
La Salle, Illinois, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Las Cruces, New Mexico, post office and courthouse : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Las Vegas, NewMexico, post office and courthouse : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Laurens, South Carolina, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Lead, South Dakota, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Lewiston, Idaho, post office : For completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Lexington, North Carolina, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Lexington, Virginia, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.
Lincoln, Nebraska, post office and courthouse: For the commencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Little Falls, Minnesota, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.

Lander, Wyo. Lansing, Mich.
Laporte, Ind. La Salle, Ind. . Las Cruces, N. Mex. Las Vegas,N. Mex. Laurens, S.C. Lead, S. Dak . Lewiston, Idaho. Lexington, N.C. Lexington, Va. Lincoln, Nebr.
Little Falls, Minn.

Logan, Ohio, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Long Beach, California, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Long Branch, New Jersey, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Longview, Texas, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Logan, Ohio. Long Beach, Cal. Long Branch, N.J.
Longview, Tex.

Lorain, Ohio, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Lumberton, North Carolina, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
For rent of temporary quarters at Lynchburg, Virginia, for the accommodation of Government officials, two thousand dollars.
Macomb, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Macon, Missouri, post office : To reimburse the construction fund for extraordinary expenses incurred on account of foundation work, three thousand five hundred dollars.

Lorain, Ohio. Lumberton, N.C. LReynntc. hburg , Va. Macomb, Ill. Macon, Mo.

Madison, South Dakota, post office : For site under present limit, Madison, S. Dak. ten thousand dollars.

Manchester, Connecticut, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Mandan, North Dakota, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Mansfield, Ohio, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.
Maquoketa, Iowa, post office: For a site under present limit, five thousand dollars.

Manchester, Conn. Mandan, N. Dak. Mansfield, Ohio. Maquoketa, Iowa,

1376

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Marion, S. C. Marlboro, Mass. Martin, Tenn. Maryville, Mo. Maryville, Tenn. Massillon, Ohio. Mattoon, Ill. McComb, Miss. McPherson, Kans. Medford, Oreg.
Media, Pa. Mena, Ark. Mexico, Mo.

Marion, South Carolina, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Marlboro, Massachusetts, post office : For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Martin, Tennessee, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit , five thousand dollars.
Maryville, Missouri, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.
Maryville, Tennessee, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Massillon, Ohio, post office : For a site and completion of the erection of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Mattoon, Illinois, post office : For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
McComb, Mississippi, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
McPherson, Kansas, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Medford, Oregon, post office and courthouse : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty-six thousand dollars .
- Media, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Mena, Arkansas, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Mexico, Missouri, post office : For a site and continuation of the

Miami, Fla.

erection of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Miami, Florida, post office, courthouse, and customhouse : For site

and continuation of building under present limit, sixty thousand

dollars .

Middlesboro, K. Middlesboro, Kentucky, post office: For site and commencement

of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Middletown, Conn. Middletown, Connecticut, post office : For acquisition of site under

present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

Middletown, N. Y. Middletown, New York, post office : For completion of building

Miles City, Mont.
Proviso. Site.

under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Miles City, Montana, post office : For site and commencement of
building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars : Provided, That

a site for said building may with the consent of Miles City be selected

within the limits of the area of land heretofore granted by the United

States to said Miles City for a public park. Milledgeville, Ga. Milledgeville, Georgia, post office: For site and completion of

Millville, N. J.

building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Millville, New Jersey, post office : For site and commencement of

building under present límit , fifteen thousand dollars.

Mineral Wells, Tex. Mineral Wells, Texas, post office : For site and continuation of

building under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.

Minneapolis, Minn. Strip relinquished

Minneapolis, Minnesota, public building site : That the Secretary of

for public street. the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to grant, relinquish, and

convey to the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a strip of land twenty feet in width, off the Third Avenue south frontage of block forty,

acquired for a Federal building site at that place; said strip of land being the southeasterly twenty feet in width of said block and to be

Mishawaka, Ind.

used for street purposes only ; said conveyance is intended to conform to a plan for widening streets and avenues, including the widening of Third Avenue south from Fifth Street to the river, and said conveyance shall not be made until said avenue shall be widened by the city as aforesaid.
Mishawaka, Indiana, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1377

Missoula, Montana, post office: For continuation of building under Missoula, Mont. present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.
Monongahela, Pennsylavania, post office : For site and commence- Monongahela,Pa.

ment of building under present limit, twenty-two thousand dollars. Monroe, Wisconsin, post office: For acquisition of site under pres- Monroe, Wis.
ent limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Montevideo, Minnesota, post office : For acquisition of site under Montevideo, Minn. present limit, five thousand dollars.

Morgantown, West Virginia, post office: For site and continuation Morgantown, W. Va. of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Moscow, Idaho, post office and courthouse : For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Moundsville, West Virginia, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.

Moscow, Idaho. Moundsville,W.Va.

Mount Vernon, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of Mount Vernon, Ill. building under present limit, seventeen thousand dollars.

Mount Vernon, Indiana, post office : For acquisition of site under Mount Vernon, Ind. present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

Murfreesboro, Tennessee, post office : For site and completion of Murfreesboro, Tenn. building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Murphysboro, Illinois, post office: For site and completion of Murphysboro, Ill. building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Muskogee, Oklahoma, post office and courthouse: For continuation Muskogee, Okla.

of the building under present limit, one hundred and forty thousand dollars.

Narragansett

Pier,

Rhode

Island ,

post

office :

For

site

and

com-

Narrangansett R. I.

Pier,

mencement of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Naugatuck, Connecticut, post office : For acquisition of site under Naugatuck, Conn. present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Neenah, Wisconsin, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
New Albany, Indiana, post office : For commencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Neenah, Wis. New Albany, Ind.

Newark, New York, post office: For a site and continuation of the erection of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Newberry, South Carolina, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.

Newark, N. Y. Newberry, S. C.

Newburyport, Massachusetts, post office: For acquisition of site Newburyport, Mass. under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

New Castle, Indiana, post office : For site and commencement of New Castle, Ind. building under present limit, seventeen thousand dollars.

New Haven, Connecticut, post office : For site and commencement New Haven, Conn.

of building under present limit, four hundred thousand dollars.

Newnan, Georgia, post office : For completion of building under Newnan, Ga.

present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.

New Orleans, Louisiana, post office and courthouse: For continua- New Orleans, La.

tion of building under present limit, six hundred and fifty thousand

dollars: Provided, That the limit of the cost heretofore fixed by Con-

Proviso. Limit of cost in-

gress for the completion of the United States post office and court- creased.

house building at New Orleans is hereby increased by the sum of

two hundred thousand dollars, in order that the interior may be

finished in keeping with the alterations approved by the Treasury

Department in the exterior of said building. Newport, Arkansas, post office: For site and commencement of Newport, Ark.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
NewRochelle, N.Y. New Rochelle, New York, post office : For site and commencement

of building under present limit, fifty-five thousand dollars.

New York, New York, assay office : For completion of the enlarge- ANseswayYoofrfkic,eN. . Y. ment, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under

present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

1378

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Contracts for en- The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to make plans and

larging, etc.

preliminary contracts for the enlargement, remodeling, and rebuild-

ing of the portion of the assay office building in New York City

fronting on Wall Street at a limit of cost not to exceed two hundred

and seventy thousand dollars, and he is empowered to employ such engineering, technical, and architectural services as may be necessary in his discretion, and not in excess of the customary and prevailing professional charges for such services, and to make payment

therefor, at such rates of compensation as he may deem proper, from

any unexpended balance of the appropriation for assay office build-

ing, Nety York, New York.

New York, N. Y. Barge office annex.

New York, New York, barge office: For continuation of the recon-

struction of the annex and building pier in connection therewith

under present limit, one hundred thousand dollars.

Reconstruction of barge office.

The Act of May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and eight,

Vol. 35 , p. 318, authorizing the reconstruction of the barge office annex at New York

amended.

City, and the building of a pier in connection therewith, at a total

limit of cost of not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars, is hereby

so amended as to authorize the reconstruction of the barge office and

annex and the building of a pier in connection therewith within the

said total limit of cost heretofore fixed, and all appropriations here-

tofore made for the reconstruction of the New York barge office annex and building of pier shall be available for the purposes herein

Rent. Marine hospital.

authorized. New York, New York, barge office : For rental of temporary quar-
ters and moving expenses incident thereto, forty thousand dollars. New York, New York, marine hospital : For completion of recon-
struction and for additional buildings under present limit, one hun-

Post office.

dred and fifty thousand dollars. New York, New York, post office : For continuation of building

under present limit, one million two hundred and fifty thousand

dollars.

Niles, Ohio.

Niles, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit,

fifteen thousand dollars.

North Adams, Mass. North Adams, Massachusetts, post office : For site and completion

of building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

North Attleboro, Mass.

North Attleboro, Massachusetts, post office: For site and com-

mencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars. North Platte, Nebr. North Platte, Nebraska, post office and courthouse: For site and

completion of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dol-

lars.

North Yakima, Wash.

North Yakima, Washington, post office and courthouse : For con-

tinuation of building under present limit, seventy-five thousand dollars.

Nyack, N. Y.

Nyack, New York, post office : For acquisition of site under present

Oil City, Pa.

limit, fifteen thousand five hundred dollars. Oil City, Pennsylvania, post office : For the commencement of the

enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building

under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Oklahoma City,

Okla.

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, post office: For completion of building

Olympia, Wash.

under present limit, one hundred and ninety thousand dollars. Olympia, Washington, post office : For the continuation of the erec-

tion of building under present limit, sixty thousand dollars. Orangeburg, S. C. Orangeburg, South Carolina, post office: For site and continuation

Orlando, Fla. Osage City, Kans.

of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Orlando, Florida, post office : For acquisition of site under present
limit, five thousand dollars.
Osage City, Kansas, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1379

Ottumwa, Iowa, post office and courthouse: For completion of building under present limit, seventy-five thousand dollars.
Owatonna, Minnesota, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Owensboro, Kentucky, public building : The Secretary of the Treas-
ury is authorized and directed to have appraised, in a fair and impartial manner, and, in his discretion, to sell at not less than such appraisement and convey the old Federal building and the site thereof

Ottumwa, Iowa. Owatonna, Minn. OSwaelenosfboolrdob,uKiyld. ing.

at Owensboro, Kentucky, at such time and on such terms as he may deem to be to the best interests of the United States, and to deposit the proceeds in the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
Palatka, Florida, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Paragould, Arkansas, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

Palatka, Fla. Paragould, Ark.

Paris, Texas, post office : For commencement of the enlargement, Paris, Tex. extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Park City, Utah, post office : For additional cost of building, five thousand dollars.
Parkersburg, West Virginia, post office and courthouse : For acquisition of additional land under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Passaic, New Jersey, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Pendleton, Oregon, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.
Penn Yan, New York, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Pensacola, Florida, post office and courthouse: For commence-
ment of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

Park City, Utah. Parkersburg, W. Va.
Passaic, N. J. Pendleton, Oreg. Penn Yan, N. Y. Pensacola, Fla.

Perry, Iowa, post office: For site and commencement of building Perry, Iowa.. under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Perth Amboy, New Jersey, post office and customhouse: For Perth Amboy, N. J.

completion of retaining wall and other purposes under present limit, six thousand dollars.
Peru, Indiana, postoffice: For completion of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Peru, Ind.

Philippi, West Virginia, post office and courthouse: For acquisition of site under present limit, eight thousand dollars.
Phoenix, Arizona, post office and courthouse: For site and continuation of building under present limit, one hundred and twenty thousand dollars.

Philippi, W. Va. Phoenix, Ariz.

Piqua, Ohio, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars.
Point Pleasant, West Virginia, post office: For site and continua-
tion of building under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Pontiac, Illinois, post office: For site and continuation of building
under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.

Piqua, Ohio. Point Pleasant, W. Pontiac, III.

Pontiac, Michigan, post office: For completion of building under Pontiac, Mich. present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Port Arthur, Texas, post office and customhouse : For site and Port Arthur, Tex. completion of building under present limit, thirty-seven thousand dollars.

Port Jervis, New York, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.
Portland, Indiana, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars..

PortJervis, N, Y. Portland, Ind.

1380

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Portland, Oreg.

Portland, Oregon, post office and courthouse : For acquisition of

site under present limit, five hundred thousand dollars. Portsmouth, Ohio. Portsmouth, Ohio, post office and courthouse : For the commence-
ment of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of

Pottstown, Pa. Princeton, Ill. Princeton, Ind.

the building under present limit, forty thousand dollars. Pottstown, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of site under
present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Princeton, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Princeton, Indiana, post office : For site and continuation of build-

Pulaski, Va. - Putnam, Conn.

ing under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars. Pulaski, Virginia, post office : For acquisition of site under present
limit, five thousand dollars. Putnam, Connecticut, post office : For site and commencement of

Quincy, Ill.

building under present limit, thirteen thousand dollars. Quincy, Illinois, post office and courthouse : For completion of the

Rent. Quitman, Ga. Raleigh, N. C.

enlargement , extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
For rental of temporary quarters at Quincy, Illinois, for accommodation of Government officials, two thousand dollars.
Quitman, Georgia, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Raleigh, North Carolina, post office : For the commencement of the

Reading, Mass. Reading, Pa.

enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Reading, Massachusetts, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit , ten thousand dollars.
Reading, Pennsylvania, post office: For acquisition of additional land and continuation of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or

improvement of the building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Red Bank, N.J. Redfield, S. Dak. Reidsville, N. C.

Red Bank, New Jersey, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
Redfield, South Dakota, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Reidsville, North Carolina, post office and courthouse: For addi-

tional land and the commencement of the enlargement, extension,

Richfield, Utah. Richmond, Va.

remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, twentyfive thousand dollars.
Richfield, Utah, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Richmond, Virginia, post office, courthouse, and customhouse:

For completion of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improve-

Rent . Robinson, III. Rochester, Pa. Rock Island, Ill.

ment of building under present limit, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
For rent of temporary quarters for the accommodation of Government officials at Richmond, Virginia, twenty thousand dollars.
Robinson, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Rochester, Pennsylvania, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Rock Island , Illinois, post office: For additional land and completion

Rent. Rockville, Coun. Rocky Mount, N. C.

of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars.
For rental of temporary quarters at Rock Island , Illinois, for accommodation of Government officials, four thousand dollars.
Rockville, Connecticut, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Rocky Mount, North Carolina, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1381

Rome, Georgia, post office : For completion of building under pres- Rome, Ga. ent limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Roseburg, Oregon, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Roswell, New Mexico , post office and courthouse : For site and continuation of building under present limit, sixty thousand dollars.
Rumford Falls, Maine, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Roseburg, Oreg. Roswell,N. Mex.
Rumford Falls, Me.

Sacramento, California, post office and courthouse : For completion
of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Saint Louis, Missouri, customhouse: For commencement of the
enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.
Saint Louis, Missouri, post office : For mechanical devices and
equipment for conveying and handling mails, one hundred thousand dollars.

Sacramento, Cal. SCauisnttoLmohuiosu,seM.o. Post office.

Saint Louis, Missouri, subtreasury: For acquisition of site under Subtreasury. present limit, three hundred thousand dollars.

Salem, Ohio, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, seventeen thousand dollars.
Salisbury, North Carolina, post office : For site and completion of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Salt Lake City, Utah, post office and courthouse: For additional ground and continuation of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of the building under present limit, sixty thousand dollars.
San Angelo, Texas, post office and courthouse: For site and completion of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
San Bernardino, California, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
San Diego, California, post office and courthouse : For site and continuation of building under present limit, eighty thousand dollars.
San Francisco, California, subtreasury: For site and commencement of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.
San Juan, Porto Rico, post office and courthouse: For continuation of building under present limit, one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.
Santa Barbara, California, post office : For site and continuation of
building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Santa Cruz, California, post office : For completion of building
under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Salem, Ohio. Salisbury, N.C. Salt Lake City, Utah.
San Angelo, Tex. San Bernardino, Cal. San Diego,Cal. San Francisco, Cal. San Juan, P. R. Santa Barbara, Cal. Santa Cruz, Cal.

Savanna, Illinois, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, five thousand dollars.
Schenectady, New York, post office : For site and continuation of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized in his discretion to reduce the forty-foot fire limit in this instance to not less than twenty feet on the interior sides of the lot.

Savanna, Ill.
Schenectady, N. Y. POrpoevnissop. ace.

Seattle, Washington, post office (only) : For acquisition of site under present limit, two hundred thousand dollars.
Seymour, Connecticut, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Seymour, Indiana, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Shamokin, Pennsylvania, post office : For completion of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Shelby, North Carolina, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Seattle, Wash. Seymour, Conn. Seymour, Ind. Shamokin, Pa. Shelby, N. C.

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-89

1382

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Shelbyville, Ky.

Shelbyville, Kentucky, post office : For acquisition of site under

present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Sheridan, Wyo.

Sheridan, Wyoming, post office and courthouse : For site and com-

Shreveport, La.

pletion of building under present limit, seven thousand dollars. Shreveport, Louisiana, post office and courthouse : For completion

Sidney, Ohio.

of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars. Sidney, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present

limit, twenty thousand dollars.

Sioux Falls, S. Dak. Sioux Falls, South Dakota, post office and courthouse : For con-

tinuation of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement

of the building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.
Rent. For rent of temporary quarters at Sioux Falls, South Dakota, for

the accommodation of Government officials, twelve thousand dollars.

Skowhegan, Me.

Skowhegan, Maine, post office : For acquisition of site under present

Smyrna, Del. Proviso. Open space.

limit, twenty thousand dollars. Smyrna, Delaware, post office : For site and commencement of
building under present limit, five thousand dollars : Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, disregard the

Somerset, Ky.

provision requiring forty feet open space for fire protection. Somerset, Kentucky, post office: For site and continuation of

building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.

South Bethlehem, Pa.

South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, post office: For acquisition of site

under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.

South Boston, Va. South Boston, Virginia, post office: For acquisition of site under

present limit, five thousand dollars.

Sparta, Wis.

Sparta, Wisconsin, post office: For site and commencement of

Springfield, Mo.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars. Springfield, Missouri, post office and courthouse: For commence-

ment of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of

building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Stamford, Conn.

Stamford, Connecticut, post office : For site and commencement

Stamford, Tex.

of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Stamford, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present

Statesboro, Ga. Steelton, Pa.

limit, ten thousand dollars.
Statesboro, Georgia, post oifice: For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Steelton, Pennsylvania, post office: For a site and continuation

of the erection of building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Steubenville, Ohio. Steubenville, Ohio, post office: For site and commencement of

building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Suffolk, Va.

Suffolk, Virginia, post office: For site and continuation of building

Sycamore, Ill.

under present limit, forty-five thousand dollars. Sycamore, Illinois, post office : For site and commencement of

Syracuse, N. Y. Talladega, Ala.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Syracuse, New York, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, one hundred thousand dollars.
Talladega, Alabama, post office: For site and continuation of

Tarboro, N. C.

building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Tarboro, North Carolina, post office : For site and commencement

Tarentum, Pa.

of building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars. Tarentum, Pennsylvania, post office: For acquisition of site under

Taylorsville, Ill. Thomasville, Ga.

present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Taylorsville, Illinois, post office : For acquisition of site under pres
ent limit, fifteen thousand dollars. Thomasville, Georgia, post office: For site and commencement of

building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Three Rivers, Mich. Three Rivers, Michigan, post office: For site and commencement of

Tiffin, Ohio.

building under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.
Tiffin, Ohio, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit, eight thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1383

Titusville, Pennsylvania, post office: For additional for site, five thousand dollars.
Topeka, Kansas, post office and courthouse: For the enlargement,
extension, remodeling, and improving the public building in the city of Topeka, Kansas, now used for a post office, courthouse, and for other purposes, including heating, plumbing, lighting, one hundred thousand dollars.

Titusville, Pa. Topeka, Kans.

Traverse City, Michigan, post office and customhouse : For com-
mencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Tucson, Arizona, post office and courthouse: For acquisition of site under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
Tupelo, Mississippi, post office : For site for building, ten thousand dollars.

TraverseCity, Mich. Tucson, Ariz Tupelo, Miss.

Twin Falls, Idaho, post office: For acquisition of site under present Twin Falls, Idaho. limit, ten thousand dollars.

Union, South Carolina, post office : For site and continuation of Union, 8. C. building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Union City, Tennessee, post office: For site and continuation of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars.
Urbana, Illinois, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, sixteen thousand dollars.

Union City, Tenn. Urbana, III.

Urbana, Ohio, post office: For acquisition of site under present Urbana, Ohio. limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Utica, New York, post office: For acquisition of site under present Utica, N. Y. limit, one hundred thousand dollars.

Uvalde, Texas, post office: For site and commencement of building Uvalde, Tex. under present limit, one thousand dollars.

Valley City, North Dakota, post office: For acquisition of site under Valley City, N. Dak. present limit, ten thousand dollars.

Vancouver, Washington, post office: For acquisition of site under Vancouver, Wash. present limit, twelve thousand five hundred dollars..
Vicksburg, Mississippi, post office and courthouse : For the com- Vicksburg, Miss.

mencement of the enlargement, extension, remodeling, or improvement of building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

Victoria, Texas, post office and courthouse: For site and completion of bullding under present limit, eighty thousand dollars.
Wabash, Indiana, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, sixty thousand dollars.

Victoria, Tex. Wabash, Ind.

Wahoo, Nebraska, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, six thousand dollars.
Wahpeton, North Dakota, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Walla Walla, Washington, post office and courthouse: For site and continuation of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.
Wallingford, Connecticut, post office: For site and completion of building under present limit, eighty thousand dollars.
Waltham, Massachusetts, post office: For site and commencement of building under present limit, twenty-three thousand dollars.
Warrenton, Virginia, post office: For acquisition of site under present limit, twelve thousand dollars.

Wahoo, Nebr. Wahpeton, N. Dak. Walla Walla, Wash. Wallingford, Conn.
Warrenton, Va.

Washington, District of Columbia, Bureau of Engraving and Print- WEansgr'anvgtionng, D.aCn. d ing: For site and completion of building under present limit, one mil- Printing Bureau.
lion two hundred and fifty-three thousand six hundred and ninetyfive dollars and sixty cents.

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized, in his discretion, to
procure from a specially qualified engineer or engineers the plans and specifications for and the complete engineering services necessary in connection with the supervision of the construction and installation of vaults for the new building for the Bureau of Engraving and

Plans, etc.,forvaults,

1384

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 285. 1911 .

Printing, at such rates of compensation as he may deem just and

proper, and not in excess of the customary and prevailing profes-

sional charges for such services, and to make payment therefor from

the appropriation for the construction of said new building.
State, Justice, and Commerce and Labor Washington, District of Columbia, Departments of State, Justice,

Departments ings.

build- and Commerce and Labor: For additional amount for designs and

Designs and esti- estimates for separate buildings as authorized by section thirty-one

mates.

Ante, p. 698.

of the public buildings Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen

Post office.

hundred and ten, one hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Washington, District of Columbia, post office : For commencement

of the building under present limit, one million five hundred thousand

dollars. Washington, Ind. Washington, Indiana, post office: For acquisition of site under
present limit, ten thousand dollars. Washington, Iowa. Washington, Iowa, post office : For acquisition of site under present

limit, ten thousand dollars: Washington, N. C. Washington, North Carolina, post office and courthouse : For site

and continuation of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars.

Waterville, Me.

Waterville, Maine, post office: For site and continuation of building

Waukegan, III.

under present limit, seventy thousand dollars. Waukegan, Illinois, post office : For a site and continuation of the

Waupun, Wis.

erection of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Waupun, Wisconsin, post office : For acquisition of site under pres-

ent limit, five thousand dollars.

Waxahachie, Tex. - Waxahachie, Texas, post office: For site and completion of building

Waycross, Ga.

under present limit, thirty-five thousand dollars. Waycross, Georgia, post office : For additional land and completion

Waynesboro, Va. Waynesville, N. C. Webb City, Mo. Wellsburg, W. Va.

of building under present limit, ten thousand dollars. Waynesboro, Virginia, post office : For acquisition of site under
present limit, five thousand dollars.
Waynesville, North Carolina, post office : For acquisition of site under present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Webb City, Missouri, post office : For site and commencement of building under present límit, fourteen thousand dollars.
Wellsburg, West Virginia, post office : For site and commencement

Wenatchee, Wash. Westerly, R. I.

of building under present limit, fourteen thousand dollars. Wenatchee, Washington, post office: For acquisition of site under
present limit, ten thousand dollars.
Westerly, Rhode Island, post office : For site and completion of

Westfield, Mass.

building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Westfield, Massachusetts, post office: For site and continuation of

building under present limit, forty thousand dollars.

West Point, Miss.

West Point, Mississippi, post office : For a site and commencement

of the erection of building under present limit, thirty thousand dollars. Wichita Falls, Tex. Wichita Falls, Texas, post office: For site and completion of build-

ing under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars. Wilkesboro, N. C. Wilkesboro, North Carolina, post office and courthouse : For site

and commencement of building under present limit, twelve thousand
dollars.
Williamson, W. Va. Williamson, West Virginia, post office: For acquisition of site under

present limit, seven thousand five hundred dollars. Williston, N. Dak. Williston, North Dakota, post office : For site and commencement

Wilson, N. C.

of building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars. Wilson, North Carolina, post office : For site and continuation of

building under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars. Winchester, Ky.
Winchester, Kentucky, post office : For site and completion of

building under present limit, fifty-five thousand dollars.
Winchester, Tenn. Winchester, Tennessee, post office : For site and commencement of

building under present limit, eleven thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1385

Winfield, Kansas, post office : For site and commencement of building under present limit,fifteen thousand dollars.
Winston Salem, North Carolina, post office : For site and commence-
ment of building under present limit, fifty thousand dollars. Woodbury, New Jersey, post office: For acquisition of site under
present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.

Winfield, Kans. WinstonSalem, N.C. Woodbury, N. J.

Woonsocket, Rhode Island, post office: For site and completion of Woonsocket, R. L building under present limit, twenty thousand dollars.
Yoakum, Texas, post office: For acquisition of site under present Yoakum, Tex, limit, five thousand dollars.
Yonkers, New York, post office : For site and continuation of build- Yonkers, N. Y. '. ing under present limit, twenty-five thousand dollars.
York, Pennsylvania, post office: For completion of building under York, Pa. present limit, two hundred thousand dollars.
Ypsilanti, Michigan, post office: For site and commencement of Ypsilanti, Mich. "building under present limit, fifteen thousand dollars.
For repairs and preservation of public buildings : Repairs and pres- Repairs and preser ervation of customhouses, courthouses, and post offices, quarantine
stations and marine hospitals, buildings and wharf at Sitka, Alaska,
buildings not reserved by the vendors on sites acquired for buildings or the enlargement of buildings, and other public buildings and the grounds thereof, including necessary wire screens, under the control of the Treasury Department, exclusive of personal services, except- Proviso. for work done by contract, six hundred thousand dollars: Provided, Marine hospitals That of this amount not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars may tainodns.quarantine sta be used for marine hospitals and quarantine stations, including wire screens for same, and not exceeding twelve thousand dollars for the Treasury, Butler, and Winder buildings, at Washington, District of Treasury buildings. Columbia.

Mechanical equipment for public buildings : For heating, hoisting, meMnetc.hanical equip plumbing, gas piping, ventilating, and refrigerating apparatus, vacuum cleaning systems, interior pneumatic-tube, conduit, wiring, call-bell, and signal systems and repairs to the same, for all public buildings, including buildings not reserved by the vendors on sites acquired for buildings or the enlargement of buildings under the control of the Treasury Department, exclusive of personal services,
except for work done by contract, and including not exceeding thirty thousand dollars for marine hospitals and quarantine stations, and not exceeding nine thousand dollars for the Treasury, Butler , and Winder buildings at Washington, District of Columbia, and including
not exceeding ten thousand dollars for maintenance, changes in and repairs of pneumatic-tube system between the appraiser's ware- Pneumatic-tubesyshouse at Greenwich, Christopher, Washington, and Barrow Streets tem, New York.

and the new customhouse in Bowling Green, Borough of Manhattan, in the city of New York, including repairs to the street pavement
and subsurface necessarily incident to or resulting from such maintenance, changes, or repairs, four hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Vaults, safes, and locks for public buildings : For vaults, safes, and ,loVcakusl. ts, safes, and locks for same, and repairs thereto, for all public buildings under the control of the Treasury Department, including the lock-box equip-
ment and repairs to same in completed and occupied buildings,
exclusive of personal services, except for work done by contract, ninety thousand dollars.
Electrical protection to vaults, public buildings: For installation alEalremctsr. ical burglar and maintenance of electrical burglar-alarm devices authorized by Vol. 2, p. 1091. the sundry civil appropriation Act approved March third, nineteen hundred and three, including the post office, courthouse, and so forth, building at Chicago, Illinois; and the post office and subtreasury BCohsitcoang,o,MaTs.s. building at Boston, Massachusetts, twenty-eight thousand dollars.

1386

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 285. 1911.

Treasury Building, For installation and maintenance of electrical burglar-alarm District of Columbia. devices in the Treasury Building at Washington, District of Columbia,

seven hundred and twenty dollars. General expenses. General expenses of public buildings : To enable the Secretary of

the Treasury to execute and give effect to the provisions of section

Vol. 35, p. 537.

six of the Act of May thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight (Thirty-

Additional salary,

Steucpte.rvising Archi: fifth Statutes, page five hundred and thirty-seven, part one) : For additional salary of one thousand dollars for the Supervising Architect

of the Treasury for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, and

arDchriatfetcts'mseonf,fiectec.., in for compensation of skilled draftsmen, civil engineers, computers, and such other services as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem necessary and specially order, to be employed only in the office of the

Supervising Architect exclusively to carry into effect public building legislation, including the administrative work in connection with the

Provisos. Limit.

annual appropriations under the control of the Supervising Architect's office: Provided, That the expenditures on this account for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not

spSeucpteorrsi,nettecn.d, aetntbusi, lidn-- exceed four hundred thousand dollars ; for compensation of super-

ings.

vising superintendents, superintendents, and junior superintendents

of construction, inspectors of public buildings, and inspectors of

mechanical and electrical engineering, in connection with the erection

Limit.

and inspection of work on public buildings, at rates of compensation to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, but in no case exceeding eight dollars per day, Sundays included: Provided, That

Mechanical force.

the expenditures on this account for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, shall not exceed two hundred
labor and forty thousand dollars ; for compensation of mechanical labor force, including carpenters, plumbers, machinists, and such other

services as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem necessary and specially order, including the compensation of superintendents and assistant superintendents of repairs, engaged in work incident to repair of buildings, mechanical equipment, and vaults, safes, and locks, at such rates of compensation as may be determined by the

Secretary of the Treasury, but in no case to exceed for any one person

the rates current for similar services at the time and in the place where

Limit.

such services are performed : Provided, That the expenditures on this

account for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and

twelve, shall not exceed eighty thousand dollars ; for expenses of

Traveling and mis. Superintendence, including traveling expenses of building and furni-

cellaneous expenses. ture inspectors and other officers and employees , on duty or detailed in connection with work on public buildings and the furnishing and

equipment thereof, under orders from the Treasury Department, office rent, and expenses incident thereto, for superintendents, including temporary stenographic and other assistance incident to

Ante, p. 1195.

the preparation of reports and the care of public property, and so forth; for commissions to disbursing agents in accordance with law for cost of advertising ; for office supplies, including drafting materials, specially prepared paper, typewriting machines and exchange of same, and furniture, carpets, and office equipment, stationery, telephone

service, and such other articles and supplies as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem necessary and specially order or approve for the

use of the office of the Supervising Architect, not including heat, light, janitor service, awnings, curtains, or any expenses for the general maintenance of the Treasury building, but including not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars for books of reference, technical

periodicals and journals, subscriptions to which may be paid in advance, and also for contingencies of every kind and character,

including compensation and expenses of judges to select plans, care

chCitoemcmtiss. sions to ar- of sites acquired for public buildings, commissions to architects under

Vol. 27, p.468.

the provisions of the Act approved February twentieth, eighteen

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1387

hundred and ninety-three, traveling expenses of site agents, recording

deeds and other evidences of title, telephone 'service at completed

public buildings for use of custodians, photographic instruments, chemicals, plates, and photographic materials, and such other minor

and incidental expenses not enumerated, connected solely with work on public buildings and the acquisition of sites, and the administrative work connected with the annual appropriations under the Supervising

Architect's office, as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem necessary and specially order or approve, but not including surveys, plaster models, progress photographs, test pit borings, or mill and

shop inspections; in all, for the foregoing objects for general expenses

of public buildings, eight hundred thousand dollars.

Hereafter

all

disbursements

of money

appropriated

for the

con- Construction bursements to

disbe

struction

of

public

buildings

under

the

control

of

the

Treasury

De-

made from Treasury Department.

partment shall be made by the Treasury Department at Washington,

District of Columbia, except in cases of public buildings located so

remote from the seat of government as to occasion hardship by undue

delay in making payments to contractors, in every such exceptional case the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, require

the collector of customs at or nearest the place where such building ,lecPtaoyrms eonftcsustboyms.colis being constructed to make the disbursement, as provided in section R.S. , sec. 1765, p. 314. seventeen hundred and sixty-five of the Revised Statutes of the United States, but in such exceptional cases no additional compensa-

tion shall be paid to any collector of customs for disbursements

made hereunder; and hereafter no compensation or commissions diCsobmupresnesmaetniotns rfeo-r shall be allowed for the disbursement of any appropriation.for the stricted to bonded ap-

construction, extension, enlargement, remodeling, or repairs of any pointees.

public. building under the control of the Treasury Department, except to disbursing agents heretofore appointed and who have

qualified by giving bonds.

LIFE-SAVING SERVICE..

Life-Saving Service.

For salaries of superintendents for the life-saving stations, as follows:
For one superintendent for the coasts ofMaine and NewHampshire, two thousand two hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the coast of Massachusetts, two thousand two hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the coasts of Rhode Island and Fishers Island, two thousand dollars;
For one superintendent for the coast of Long Island, two thousand two hundred dollars;
For one superintendent for the coast of New Jersey, two thousand two hundred dollars;
For one superintendent for the coasts of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, two thousand two hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the coasts of Virginia and North Carolina, two thousand two hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the life-saying stations and for the houses of refuge on the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, one thousand nine hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the life-saving and lifeboat stations on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, two thousand dollars ;
For one superintendent for the life-saving and lifeboat stations on the coasts of Lakes Ontario and Erie, two thousand two hundred dollars ;
For one superintendent for the life-saving and lifeboat stations on the coasts of Lakes Huron and Superior, two thousand two hundred dollars ;

Superintendents.

1388

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. · CH. 285. 1911.

For one superintendent for the life-saving and lifeboat stations on

the coast of Lake Michigan, two thousand two hundred dollars ;

For one superintendent for the life-saving and lifeboat stations on

the coasts of California, Oregon, Washington, and Alaska, two thou-

Keepers.

sand two hundred dollars ; in all, twenty-seven thousand nine hundred dollars .
For salaries of two hundred and ninety keepers of life-saving and lifeboat stations and of houses of refuge, two hundred and seventy-six

Crews.

thousand eight hundred dollars. For pay of crews of surfmen employed at the life-saving and life-

boat stations, including the old Chicago station, at the rate of seventy dollars per month each for the number one surfman in each station,

and at the rate of sixty-five dollars per month for each of the other

surfmen during the period of actual employment, and three dollars

per day for each occasion of service at other.times; rations or com-

ofCvoomlpuenntseeartsi.on, etc., mutation thereof for keepers and surfmen; compensation of volunteers at life-saving and lifeboat stations for actual and deserving

service rendered upon any occasion of disaster or in any effort to save persons from drowning, at such rate, not to exceed ten dollars for each

volunteer, as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine ; pay of

teCnldernkts . to superin volunteer crews for drill and exercise ; compensation of twelve clerks

to district superintendents, one to each of the district superintendents

except that of the eighth district, at such rate as the Secretary of the

Treasury may determine, not to exceed nine hundred dollars each, and

persons now serving as clerks to district superintendents may be pro-

moted to a higher rate of pay within the sum named, as the Secretary Fuel, repairs, etc: of the Treasury may direct; fuel for stations and houses of refuge;

repairs and outfits for same; rebuilding and improvement of same,

including use of additional land where necessary; supplies and provisions for houses of refuge and for shipwrecked persons succored

Commutation

at stations ; traveling of

expenses

of

officers

under

orders

from

the

quarters, etc.

Treasury Department ; commutation of quarters and allowance for

heat and light for officers of the Revenue-Cutter Service detailed for

abAlleldokweaenpceers,teotc.dis duty in the Life-Saving Service ; for carrying out the provisions of

Vol. 22, p.57. Ante, p. 1195.

sections seven and eight of the Act approved May fourth, eighteen

hundred and eighty-two ; for draft animals and their maintenance ;

for telephone lines and care of same; and contingent expenses, includ-

ing freight, storage, rent, repairs to apparatus, labor, medals, sta-

tionery, newspapers for statistical purposes, advertising, and all other

necessary expenses not included under any other head of life-saving

stations on the coasts of the United States, two million and thirty-

New stations.

five thousand four hundred and twenty dollars. For establishing new life-saving stations and lifeboat stations on

the sea and lake coasts of the United States, authorized by law, to

be available until expended , twenty thousand dollars.

Revenue-Cutter Service.

REVENUE-CUTTER SERVICE .

Pay, etc.

For expenses of the Revenue-Cutter Service : For pay and allowances of captain commandant and officers of that rank, senior captains, captains, lieutenants, engineer in chief and officers of that rank, captains of engineers, lieutenants of engineers, two constructors, cadets, cadet engineers, two contract surgeons, two civilian instructors, and pilots employed, and rations for pilots ; for pay of warrant and petty officers, ships' writers, buglers, seamen, oilers, firemen, coal heavers, water tenders; stewards, cooks, and boys, and for rations for the same; for allowance for clothing for enlisted men; for fuel for vessels, and outfits for the same ; ship chandlery and engineers' stores for the same; actual traveling expenses or mileage, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, for officers traveling on duty

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. Cí. 285. 1911 .

1389.

under orders from the Treasury Department; commutation of quarters; for maintenance of vessels in the protection of the seal fisheries in Bering Sea and the other waters of Alaska, and the enforcement of the provisions of law in Alaska; for maintenance of vessels in enforcing the provisions of the Acts relating to the anchorage of vessels in the ports of New York and Chicago, and in the Kennebec River, and the movements and anchorage of vessels in Saint Marys River; for temporary leases and improvement of property for revenuecutter purposes ; not exceeding seven thousand dollars for the improvement of the depot for the service at Arundel Cove, Maryland ; not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars for medals for excellence in

Seal fisheries.
Vol. 25, p. 151. Vol. 27. P. 131. Vol. 29, p. 54. Vol. 30, 1081

marksmanship; contingent expenses, including wharfage, towage, Ante, p. 1195. dockage, freight, advertising, surveys, labor, and all other necessary miscellaneous expenses which are not included under special heads, two million two hundred and eighty-eight thousand dollars: Provided, Burials in national That officers and men of the Revenue Cutter Service dying in the cemeteries."

service of the United States, or dying in a destitute condition after
having been honorably discharged from the service, may be buried in any national cemetery free of cost, under the regulations now or hereafter provided for the burial of officers and men of the Army in national cemeteries.

For repairs to revenue cutters, one hundred and seventy-five thou- Rep·airs. sand dollars.

ENGRAVING AND PRINTING.

Engraving and printing.

For labor and expenses of engraving and printing: For salaries of Salaries.

all necessary employees, other than plate printers and plate printers' assistants, one million one hundred and thirty-one thousand six

hundred and fifty-one dollars, to be expended under the direction of
the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That no portion of this sum Proviso. Large notes.
shall be expended for printing United States notes or Treasury notes

of larger denomination than those that may be canceled or retired,

except in so far as such printing may be necessary in executing the

requirements of the Act "To define and fix the standard of value, Vol. 31, p. 45.

to maintain the parity of all forms of money issued or coined by the United States, to refund the public debt, and for other purposes," approved March fourteenth, nineteen hundred.

For wages of plate printers, at piece rates to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, not to exceed the rates usually paid for such work, including the wages of printers' assistants, when employed, one million five hundred and forty-seven thousand eight hundred

Wages.

and twenty-eight dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That no portion of this sum Proviso. shall be expended for printing United States notes or Treasury notes Large notes.

of larger denominations than those that may be canceled or retired,
except in so far as such printing may be necessary in executing the requirements of the Act to define and fix the standard of value, to maintain the parity of all forms of money issued or coined by the United States, to refund the public debt, and for other purposes, approved March fourteenth, nineteen hundred.
For engravers' and printers' materials and other materials except distinctive paper, and for miscellaneous expenses, including purchase, maintenance, and driving of necessary horses and vehicles, and of horse and vehicle for official use of the director when, in writing,

Vol. 31, p. 45. MAantteer,ipa.l1s1,9e4t.c.

ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury, four hundred and thirtythree thousand one hundred and eighty-two dollars, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury.

During the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve all proceeds toPrboececerdsedoiftewdortkos derived from work performed by the Bureau of Engraving and Bureau. Printing, by direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, not covered

1390

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Vol. 24, p. 227.

and embraced in the appropriation for said bureau for the said fiscal year, instead of being covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, as provided by the Act of August fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six (Twenty-fourth Statutes, page two hundred and twenty-seven), be credited when received to the appropriation for said bureau for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

Miscellaneous.

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS, TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Internal revenue. Paper for stamps.
Refund of taxes. Vol. 35, p. 325.

Paper for internal-revenue stamps : For paper for internal-revenue stamps, including freight, eighty thousand dollars .
To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to refund money covered into Treasury as internal-revenue collections, under the provisions of

the Act approved May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and eight,

thirty thousand dollars.

Punishing violations of internal-

Punishment for violations of interral-revenue laws : For detecting

revenue laws.

and bringing to trial and punishment persons guilty of violating the

internal-revenue laws or conniving at the same, including payments

for information and detection of such violations, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ; and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall make a detailed statement to Congress once in each year as to

how he has expended this sum, and also a detailed statement of all

miscellaneous expenditures in the Bureau of Internal Revenue for which appropriation is made in this Act. Enforcing laws re- The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use for, and in conlaDteitnagitlostpheerTmrietatseudr."y nection with, the enforcement of the laws relating to the Treasury Department and the several branches of the public service under its

control, not exceeding at any one time, four persons paid from the

appropriation for the collection of customs, four persons paid from

the appropriation for salaries and expenses of internal-revenue

agents or from the appropriation for the foregoing purpose, and four

persons paid from the appropriation for suppressing counterfeiting

and other crimes, but not exceeding six persons so detailed shall be

Proviso. Other details.

employed at any one time hereunder: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to deprive the Secretary of the Treasury

from making any detail now otherwise authorized by existing law.

Contingent expenses, Independent

Contingent expenses, Independent Treasury : For contingent

Treasury.

expenses under the requirements of section thirty-six hundred and

R.S., Sec. 3653, p. 719. fifty-three of the Revised Statutes of the United States, for the collec-

Ante, p. 1194.

tion, safe-keeping, transfer, and disbursement of the public money, for

transportation of notes, bonds, and other securities of the United

States, for salaries of special agents, and for actual expenses of exam-

iners detailed to examine the books, accounts, and money on hand at

the several subtreasuries and depositories, including national banks

R.S. , sec. 3649, p. 718. acting as depositories under the requirements of section thirty-six

hundred and forty-nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States,

also including examinations of cash accounts at mints, one hundred

and seventy thousand dollars ,

Recoinage of gold coins.

Recoinage of gold coins: For recoinage of light-weight gold coins

R.S.,sec. 3512, p. 696. in the Treasury, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary

of the Treasury, as required by section thirty-five hundred and

twelve of the Revised Statutes of the United States, five thousand

dollars.

Recoinage of minor coins.

Recoinage of minor coins : To enable the Secretary of the Treas-

ury to continue the recoinage of worn and uncurrent minor coin of

the United States now in the Treasury or hereafter received, and to

reimburse the Treasurer of the United States for the difference

between the nominal or face value of such coin and the amount the

same will produce in new coin, ten thousand dollars.

United States securities.

Distinctive paper for United States securities: For distinctive

Distinctive paper. paper for United States securities, including transportation, travel-

SIXTY-FIRST' CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285.1911.

1391

ing and laundry expenses, salaries for not more than ten months of
not exceeding one register, two assistant registers, five counters,
five watchmen, and one skilled laborer, and expenses of officer detailed from the Treasury, two hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars.
Witness of destrucSpecial witness of destruction of United States securities : For pay to of the representative of the public on the committee to witness the

destruction by maceration of Government securities, at five dollars per day while actually employed, one thousand five hundred and sixty-five dollars.

Expenses of national currency : For distinctive paper, including naDtiisotnianlctciuvrerpeanpceyr. for transportation, mill, traveling, laundry, and other necessary expenses, and expenses of officer detailed from the Treasury, salaries for not more than two months of not exceeding one register, two assistant
registers, five counters, five watchmen, and one skilled laborer ; in all, fifty-nine thousand dollars.

Canceling United States securities and cutting distinctive paper : Canceling, etc.

For extra knives for cutting machines and sharpening same; leather

belting, new dies and punches, repairs to machinery, oil, cotton waste, and other expenses connected with the cancellation of redeemed

United States securities, two hundred dollars.

Custody

of

dies,

rolls,

and

plates :

For

pay

of

custodian

of

dies,

Custody of rolls, andplates.

dies,

rolls, and plates used at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing for the

printing of Government securities, namely: One custodian, three

thousand dollars; two subcustodians, one at two thousand dollars, and one at one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two distributors of stock, one at one thousand six hundred dollars, one at one thousand four hundred dollars ; in all, nine thousand eight hundred dollars.
General inspector of supplies for public buildings : For one general

Public buildings. General Inspector of

inspector, under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, whose duty it shall be to inspect public buildings under the control of the Treasury Department, and report on the

efficiency of the custodians' forces, and the use of fuel, lights, water, miscellaneous supplies, and so forth, three thousand dollars ; and

for actual necessary, traveling expenses, not exceeding two thousand
dollars ; in all, five thousand dollars. Assistant custodians.
Pay of assistant custodians and janitors : For pay of assistant and janitors.
custodians and janitors, including all personal services for the care

of all public buildings under control of the Treasury Department outside of the District of Columbia, and washing towels, sprinkling

streets, and removing rubbish, in connection with said buildings, exclusive of marine hospitals, mints, branch mints, and assay offices, two million five hundred thousand dollars; and the Secretary of the
Treasury shall so apportion this sum as to prevent a deficiency therein .

Furniture and repairs of furniture : For furniture and repairs of paiFrusr.niture and resame, carpets, and gas and electric light fixtures for all public buildings, exclusive of marine hospitals, mints, branch mints, and assay offices, under the control of the Treasury Department, and for furniture, carpets, gas and electric light fixtures for new buildings, exclusive of personal services, except for work done by contract, seven hundred thousand dollars. And all furniture now owned by the United States in other public buildings and in buildings rented by the United States shall be used, so far as practicable,

whether it corresponds with the present regulation plan for furniture or not.

Fuel, lights, and water for public buildings: For the purchase of waFtueerl., lights, and fuel, steam, light, water, water meters, ice, lighting supplies, electrice,p. 1195. current for light and power purposes , and miscellaneous items for the

1392

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

use of the eustodians ' forces in the care ofthe buildings, furniture, and heating, hoisting, and ventilating apparatus, and electric-light plants, exclusive of personal service, and all expenses in connection therewith, and for expenses of installing electric-light plants, and repairs thereto, and the removal of ashes, and so forth, in such buildings completed

and occupied as may be designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, for all public buildings, exclusive of marine hospitals, mints, branch mints, and assay offices, under the control of the Treasury Department, inclusive of new buildings, one million six hundred thousand dollars. And the appropriation herein made for gas shall include the

Proviso. Gas governors.

rental and use of gas governors, when ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury in writing : Provided, That no sum shall be paid as rental for such gas governors greater than thirty-five per centum of the actual

value of the gas saved thereby, which saving shall be determined by

such tests as the Secretary of the Treasury shall direct.

Pneumatic -tube

service.

During the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve the Secretary

posFtuarlnsiesrhviincgesftoer.am to of the Treasury is authorized, out of the appropriations "Fuel, lights, and water for public buildings," and "Pay of assistant

custodians and janitors," to furnish steam for the operation of pneumatic tubes of the postal service, as heretofore, and to pay

employees in the production of said steam, as heretofore, the proceeds

derived from the sale of said steam to be credited to said appropria-

tions in proportion to the amounts expended therefrom.

Suppressing counterfelting, etc.

Suppressing counterfeiting and other crimes: For expenses incurred

Ante, p. 1194.

under the authority or with the approval of the Secretary of the

Treasury in detecting, arresting, and delivering into the custody of

the United States marshal having jurisdiction dealers and pretended

dealers in counterfeit money and persons engaged in counterfeiting Treasury notes, bonds, national-bank notes, and other securities of

the United States and of foreign governments, as well as the coins

of the United States and of foreign governments, and other felonies

committed against the laws of the United States relating to the pay

and bounty laws, and for no other purpose whatever, except in the

Proviso. Witnesses.

protection of the person of the President of the United States, one hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. Provided, That no part of this amount be used in defraying the expenses of any person sub-

poenaed by the United States courts to attend any trial before a

United States court or preliminary examination before any United States commissioner, which expenses shall be paid from the appro-

priation for " Fees of witnesses, United States courts."

Payment topersons detailed forbidden.

No part of any money appropriated by this Act shall be used in

payment of compensation or expenses of any person detailed or trans-

ferred from the Secret Service Division of the Treasury Department,

or who may at any time during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and

Lands, etc.
Oscar Shanks Payment to.

twelve have been employed by or under said Secret Service Division. Lands and other property of the United States : For custody, care,
protection, and expenses of sales of lands and other property of the United States, the examination of titles, recording of deeds, advertising, and auctioneer's fees, three hundred dollars.
The Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and

directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise

appropriated, to Oscar Shanks, of Dallas, Texas, the sum of one

hundred and fifty-seven dollars and seventy-two cents, said Shanks

being the holder and owner of bond numbered two hundred and

fourteen of the Faynesville and Youngstown Railroad Company, sold under decree of foreclosure by the United States circuit court for the northern district of Ohio, eastern division, and the proceeds

distributed, except the sum of four hundred and seventy-three dollars and twenty-two cents, the distributive share of the bond above referred to, and two others of like kind and amount, which sum was deposited by the clerk of said court to the credit of the Treasurer of

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1393

the United States in accordance with the Act approved February nineteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, and covered into
the Treasury by miscellaneous warrant numbered twenty-two hundred and seventy-four, second quarter of eighteen hundred and ninety-nine.
CUSTOMS SERVICE.

Vol. 29, p. 578. Customs Service.

To

defray

the

expenses

of

collecting

the

revenue

from

customs,

five

Collecting customs revenue, additional.

Detection offrauds,

million dollars, being additional to the permanent appropriation for increased.

this purpose for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hun- R.S.sec.3687, p.724.

dred and twelve.

And

the

provisions

of the

Act

of

March

third,

Vol. 20, p. 386; Vol. 33, p. 396, amended.

eighteen hundred and seventy-nine (Twentieth Statutes, page three Ante, p. 1195.

hundred and eighty-six), as amended by the Act of April twenty-

seventh, nineteen hundred and four (Thirty-third Statutes, page

three hundred and pinety-six), authorizing the Secretary of the
Treasury to expend out of the appropriation for defraying the expenses of collecting the revenue from customs such amount as he

may deem necessary, not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand

dollars per annum, for the detection and prevention of frauds upon the customs revenue, are hereby further amended so as to increase

the amount to be so expended for the fiscal year nineteen hundred
and twelve to two hundred thousand dollars. Special agents.
Hereafter the number and compensation of special agents to be Appointment and
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury under section twenty-six RS.sec.2649, p. 623, hundred and forty-nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States, amended. shall be as follows:
Supervising agent. One supervising agent who shall supervise and direct the special
agents of the Treasury Department and who shall receive, in addition

to the necessary traveling expenses actually incurred by him, a com-

pensation of four thousand five hundred dollars per annum; Ten special agents who shall each receive, in addition to the neces- Special agents.

sary traveling expenses actually incurred by him, a compensation to

be fixed bythe Secretary of the Treasury, not to exceed twelve dollars per day;

Ten special agents who shall each receive, in addition to the

necessary traveling expenses actually incurred by him, a compensa-

tion to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, not to exceed ten

dollars per day; and

Ten special agents who shall each receive, in addition to the

necessary traveling expenses actually incurred by him, a compensa-

tion to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury not to exceed eight dollars per day.
Scales for customs service: The unexpended balance of the appro-
priation of twenty-five thousand dollars made by the sundry civil Act approved June thirtieth, nineteen hundred.and six, for construction and installation of special automatic and recording scales for

Automaticstable. Vol. 34, p. 703.

weighing merchandise, and so forth, in connection with imports, at the various ports of entry under direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby continued and made available for expenditure

during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

Compensation in

Compensation in lieu of moieties : For compensation in lieu of lieuof moleties

moieties in certain cases under the customs revenue laws, one hun-

dred thousand dollars.

PUBLIC HEALTH AND MARINE-HOSPITAL, SERVICE .

Public Health and
Marine-Hospital Service.

Expenses of Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service, as follows:

For pay, allowances, and commutation of quarters for commis- Pay, etc. sioned medical officers and pharmacists, two hundred and seventyseven thousand dollars.

1394

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Freight, etc.
Fuel, etc. Furniture. Supplies.
Ren..

For pay of all other employees, three hundred and fifty-two thousand dollars ;
For freight, transporation, and traveling expenses, thirty thousand four hundred and fifty dollars ;
For fuel, light, and water, seventy-two thousand dollars ; For furniture and repairs to same, eight thousand dollars ; For purveying depot, purchase of medical, surgical, and hospital supplies, forty-five thousand dollars ;
For rent of building or floor space for purveying depot in Wash-

ington, District of Columbia, three thousand two hundred and fifty

dollars ;

Hygienic Labora- For maintaining the Hygienic Laboratory, fourteen thousand nine

tory.

hundred dollars ;

Maintenance of hos- For maintenance of marine hospitals, including subsistence, and for pitals.

Ante, p. 1195.

all other necessary miscellaneous expenses which are not included

Proviso.

under special heads, two hundred and thirty-seven thousand dollars: Provided, That there may be admitted into said hospitals, for study,

diseases.

persons with infectious or other diseases affecting the public health,

and not to exceed ten cases in any one hospital at one time;

Medical examina-

tions, etc.

For medical examinations, care of seamen, care and treatment ofall .

other persons entitled to relief, and miscellaneous expenses other than

Books, etc.

marine hospitals, which are not included under special heads, one hundred and sixteen thousand dollars ;
For journals and scientific books, for use of the Public Health and

Marine-Hospital Bureau; subscriptions for journals for use of the service may be paid for in advance,five hundred dollars ;

In all, one million one hundred and fifty-six thousand one hundred

.. Inspection of aliens. dollars, which shall include the amount necessary for the medical

Vol. 34, p. 903.

inspection of aliens, as required by section seventeen of the Art of

Congress approved February twentieth, nineteen hundred and seven.

Leprosy hospital, Hawafi.

Maintenance of leprosy hospital, Hawaii : For maintenance of lep-

Proviso.

rosy hospital, Hawaii, including pay of officers and employees: Pro-

Compensation for

Investigations.

vided, That the provisions of section seven of the Act of March third,

Vol. 33, p. 1010. nineteen hundred and five, as to compensation shall apply to said offi-

cers while engaged in investigations of leprosy at Kalihi and other

Quarantine service. Ante, p. 1195.

places in Hawaii, thirty-three thousand dollars. Quarantine Service : For the maintenance and ordinary expenses,
including pay of officers and employees of quarantine_stations at Portland, Maine ; Perth Amboy, New Jersey; Delaware Breakwater ; Reedy Island ; Alexandria, Virginia ; Cape Charles and supplemental station thereto ; Cape Fear; Newbern and Washington, North Carolina; Georgetown, Charleston, Beaufort, and Port Royal, South Carolina; Savannah; South Atlantic ; Brunswick; Cumberland Sound;

Saint Johns River ; Biscayne Bay; Key West; Boca Grande ; Tampa Bay; Port Inglis ; Cedar Key; Punta Rassa; Saint Georges Sound

Printing.

(East and West Pass) ; Pensacola ; Mobile; New Orleans and supplemental stations thereto ; Pascagoula; Gulf; San Diego, San Pedro and adjoining ports, Santa Barbara, San Francisco, and Port Harford, California; Eureka, Columbia River, Florence, Newport, Coos Bay, and Gardner, Oregon ; Port Townsend and supplemental stations thereto, quarantine system of the Hawaiian Islands, and the quarantine system of Porto Rico, four hundred thousand dollars.
An expenditure of not to exceed five hundred dollars may be

incurred during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve for print-

ing on account of the quarantine service at times when the exigencies

of that service require immediate action, chargeable to the appro-

priation "Preventing the introduction and spread of epidemic dis-

eases. "

Prevention of epi-

demics.

Prevention of epidemics : The President of the United States is

Ante, p. 1195.

hereby authorized, in case of threatened or actual epidemic of cholera,

typhus fever, yellow fever, smallpox, bubonic plague, Chinese plague,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1395

or black death, to use the unexpended balance of the sums appro-
priated and reappropriated by the sundry civil appropriation Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, or so much thereof as may be necessary, in aid of State and local boards, or otherwise, in his discretion, in preventing and suppressing the spread of the same, including pay and allowances of all officers and employees of the Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service assigned to duty in preventing and suppressing the spread ofthe same, and in such emergency in the execution of any quarantine laws which may be then in force.

Balance available. Ante, p. 717.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

District of Columbia.

Leave of absence, with pay, of members of thefiredepartment of the FLieraevdeepwairtthmepnaty. in District of Columbia, may be extended in cases of illness or injury cases of illness or inincurred in line of duty upon recommendation of the board of sur- jury onduty.

geons approved by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, for

a period not exceeding thirty days in any one calendar year. The board of education is hereby authorized until the close of the PBubsltiictsuctheotoelasc. hers.

fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, in the event of the absence

of any regularly employed teacher, to employ a substitute teacher

from an eligible list to be approved by said board, and to pay said Payment.

substitute teacher one-half of the basic salary provided for the class

in which employed for periods not exceeding thirty calendar days, and the full basic salary for periods in excess thereof: Provided, That Absveinscose.
leave of absence of any regularly employed teacher shall not exceed teachers.

allowed

thirty calendar days in any one school year, and for this period such teacher who may be absent shall be paid, in case the absence is due tuPtaeys.ment to substi

to personal illness, death in family, or quarantine on account of

contagious disease, the salary of the position, less the amount paid

to the substitute teacher, and any absence in excess of said thirty days

or absence for cause other than herein specified shall be without compensation: Provided further, That all other employees of the loOwtehderleeamvpelwoiytehespaly-.

board of education may, in the discretion of said board, be granted

not exceeding thirty days' leave of absence with pay in any one cal-

endar year, and in the event of the absence of any janitor, assistant

janitor, engineer, assistant engineer, or caretaker, at any time during school sessions the board of education is hereby authorized to appoint a substitute, who shall be paid the salary of the position in which

employed, and the amount paid to such substitute shall be deducted from the salary of the absent employee.

UNDER SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Smithsonian Institution.

International exchanges : For expenses of the system of interna- chIanntgeerns.ational extional exchanges between the United States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries

or compensation of all necessary employees, and the purchase of

necessary books and periodicals, thirty-two thousand dollars.

American ethnology:

For continuing ethnological researches among

American ogy.

the American Indians and the natives ofHawaii, including the excava-

ethnol-

tion and preservation of archeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of

all necessary employees and the purchase of necessary books and

periodicals, including payment in advance for subscriptions, fortytwo thousand dollars.
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature: For the coopera- loIgnuteeorfnaStciieonntailfiCcaLtiat--

tion of the United States in the work of the International Catalogue erature.

of Scientific Literature, including the preparation of a classified index catalogue of American scientific publications for incorporation

in the International Catalogue, the expense of clerk hire, the purchase

1396

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C.285. 1911.

Astrophysical servatory.

of necessary books and periodicals, and other necessary incidental expenses, seven thousand five hundred dollars, the same to be ex-
pended under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Ob-
Astrophysical Observatory : For maintenance of Astrophysical
Observatory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,

including salaries of assistants, the purchase of necessary books and

periodicals, including payment in advance for subscriptions, apparatus, making necessary observations in high altitudes, or in Mexico,

repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses, eighteen thousand dollars.

National Museum. Salaries, cases, fur-

National Museum : For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances

niture, etc.

required for the exhibition and safe-keeping of collections, including

salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, one hundred and

Heat, light, etc.

seventy-five thousand dollars ; For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and tele-

phonic service, fifty thousand dollars ;

Preserving, etc., collections.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the

collections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Gov-

ernment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation

of all necessary employees, and all other necessary expenses, three hundred thousand dollars, of which sum five thousand five hundred

dollars may be used for necessary drawings and illustrations for publi-

Books, etc.

cations ; For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference,

Repairs.

including payment inadvance for subscriptions, two thousand dollars ; For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, including all necessary

Postage.

labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars; For postage stamps and foreign postal cards, five hundred dollars;

In all, for the National Museum, five hundred and forty-two thou-

sand five hundred dollars.

National Zoological

Park.

National Zoological Park: For continuing the construction ofroads,

walks, bridges, water supply, sewerage, and drainage; and for grad-

ing, planting, and otherwise improving the grounds ; erecting and

repairing buildings and inclosures ; care, subsistence, purchase, and

transportation of animals ; including salaries or compensation of all

necessary employees ; and general incidental expenses not otherwise

provided for, including purchase, maintenance, and driving of horses and vehicles required for official purposes, and not exceeding one

hundred dollars for the purchase of necessary books and periodicals,

including payment in advance for subscriptions, one hundred thoureHvaelnfuesf.rom District sand dollars ; one half of which sum shall be paid from the revenues
of the District of Columbia and the other half from the Treasury of the United States.

Interstate Commerce Commission.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.

Salaries of commissioners.

For salaries of seven commissioners, at ten thousand dollars each,

seventy thousand dollars.

Secretary.

For salary of secretary, five thousand dollars.

Expenses.

For all other authorized expenditures necessary in the execution of

laws to regulate commerce, one million dollars, of which sum not Amountfor counsel. exceeding fifty thousand dollars may be expended in the employment

of counsel, and not exceeding three thousand dollars may be expended

for the purchase of necessary books, reports, and periodicals, and not

exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be expended for

Enforcing account- printing other than that done at the Government Printing Office.

ing by railroads.

To further enable the Interstate Commerce Commission to enforce

Vol. 34,p. 593. Ante, p. 556.

compliance with section twenty of the Act to regulate commerce as

amended by the Act approved June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred

and six, including the employment of necessary special . agents or

examiners, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1397

Arbitration of railTo carry out the objects of the " Act concerning carriers engaged in waydifferences.

interstate commerce and their employees," approved June first, Vol .30, p. 424.

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, fifteen thousand dollars.

The

President of the

United

States from and

after the

passage

of

Member to arbitrations.

act

at

this Act is authorized to designate from time to time any member of

the Interstate Commerce Commission or of the Court of Commerce to

exercise the powers conferred and the duties imposed upon the chair-

man of the Interstate Commerce Commission by the provisions of the "Act concerning carriers engaged in interstate commerce and their Vol .80,p.425.

employees," approved June first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight; and the member so designated, during the period for which he is

designated, shall have the powers now conferred by said Act on the chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission.

To enable the Interstate Commerce Commission to keep informed pliRaaniclewsa. y safety ap-

regarding and to enforce compliance with Acts to promote the safety p.Vo85l;.2V7o,pl..63312,; Vpo.l.92439,.

of employees and travelers upon railroads, including the employment Ante, pp. 298, 350.

of inspectors, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Safe locomotive, en-

For the payment of all authorized expenditures under the pro- gine boilers.

visions

of the

Act

of

February

seventeenth,

nineteen

hundred

and

Salaries penses.

and

ex-

eleven, "To promote the safety of employees and travelers upon rail- Ante, p. 913.

roads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate commerce

to equip their locomotives with safe and suitable boilers and appur-

tenances thereto," including such stenographic and clerical help tothe

chief inspector and his two assistants as the Interstate Commerce Commisssion may deem necessary and allowances in lieu of sub-

sistence while away from official headquarters to persons whose trav-

eling expenses are authorized by said Act to be paid at not to exceed four dollars per day, two hundred thousand dollars, to be immediately available.
Railway safety apThat the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission to pliances. extend the period within which any common carrier shall comply with Perieoxdtenfodredc.ompllthe provisions of section three of the Act entitled, " An Act to supple- ante, p. 298.

ment 'An Act to promote the safety of employees and travelers upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate com-

merce to equip their cars with automatic couplers and continuous brakes and their locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for

other purposes,' and other safety-appliance Acts, and for other
purposes," approved April fourteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, Cars placed in serv-
shall apply to cars actually placed in service between the date of ice between April 14, the passage of said Act and the first day of July, nineteen hundred 1910, and July 1, 1911.

and eleven, in the same manner and to the same extent that it

applies to cars actually in service upon the date of the passage of said Act.
To enable the Interstate Commerce Commission to investigate boInkv-essitgniaglatsiyostnemosf,

in regard to the use and necessity for block-signal systems and appli- etVc.ol.35, p. 966. ances for the automatic control of railway trains and any appliances
or systems intended to promote the safety of railway operation which may be furnished in completed shape, including experimental
tests, at the discretion of the commission, of such of said systems and appliances only as may be furnished in connection with such investigation free of cost to the Government, twenty-five thousand dollars.

UNDER THE WAR DEPARTMENT.

War Department.

ARMORIES AND ARSENALS.

Armories and arsenals.

Frankford Arsenal, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:

Frankford, Pa.

For one building for the storage of scrap, ten thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ;

88740°-VOL 36, r 1--11-90

1398

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

For one artillery ammunition assembling shop and its equipment, forty-five thousand dollars ;

Rock Island, I.

In all, fifty-five thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars. Rock Island Arsenal, Rock Island, Illinois :

For a filtration plant, thirty thousand dollars ;

Bridge expenses.

For maintenance and operation of power plant, twelve thousand five hundred dollars ;
For operating and care and preservation of Rock Island bridges and

viaduct; and for maintenance and repair of the arsenal street con-

necting the bridges, eighteen thousand dollars ;

In all, sixty thousand five hundred dollars.

Sandy Hook Proving Ground, N. J.

Proving Ground, Sandy Hook, New Jersey: For protecting the east

shore line of the Sandy Hook Proving Ground, twenty thousand dollars ;

For the improvement of sanitary conditions and the convenience of

workmen, five thousand dollars ;

In all, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Picatinny, Dover,

N.J.

Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, New Jersey : For a high-explosive plant,

twenty thousand dollars.

Springfield, Mass. Springfield Arsenal, Springfield , Massachusetts : For one dry house

and its equipment, eighteen thousand three hundred dollars;

Watertown, Mass.

For resurfacing, paving, and repairing streets owned by the United States, ten thousand five hundred dollars;
In all, twenty-eight thousand eight hundred dollars. Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Massachusetts : For completing

rearrangement of power plant and making additions thereto, seventeen thousand three hundred dollars ;

Testingmachines.

For a fuel-oil burning system in smith shop, ten thousand dollars ; In all, twenty-seven thousand three hundred dollars. Testing machines, Watertown Arsenal : For the necessary professional and skilled labor, purchase of materials, tools, and appliances

for operating the testing machines, for investigative test and tests of material in connection with the manufacturing work of the Ordnance

Watervliet, N. Y.

Department, and for instruments and materials for operating the chemical laboratory in connection therewith, and for maintenance of the establishment, fifteen thousand dollars.
Watervliet Arsenal, Watervliet, New York: For an addition to the

gun shop, and the removal of the smith shop thereto, fourteen thou-

Repairs.

sand and fifty dollars. Repairs of arsenals : For repairs and improvements at arsenals, and
to meet such unforeseen expenditures as accidents or other contin-

gencies during the year may render necessary, including one hundred

and twenty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, for machinery for manufacturing purposes in the arsenals, two hundred and ninety thousand dollars.

Quartermaster's Department.

UNDER QUARTERMASTER'S DEPARTMENT.

Military posts. Construction, etc. Military posts : For the construction and enlargement at military
posts of such buildings as in the judgment of the Secretary of War

Exceptions.

may be necessary, including the installation therein of plumbing and of heating and lighting apparatus; but no part of this sum shall be

used for the purchase of land, for construction of buildings at Coast

Artillery posts, nor for the establishment of any military prison,

fifty-five thousand dollars.

Philippine Islands and Hawaii.

Seacoast defenses, Philippine Islands and Hawaii : For continuing

Seacoast defenses. the construction of the necessary accommodations for the seacoast

artillery in Philippine Islands and Hawaii, two hundred and fifty

thousand dollars, to be immediately available.

Corregidor Island, P. I.

Electric power plant, Corregidor Island, Philippine Islands: For

Powerplant.

the construction on Corregidor Island, Philippine Islands, of an

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1399

electric power plant, one hundred and fifty-four thousand six hundred

and sixty-seven dollars. Army Supply Depot, Fort Mason, California: To continue the
construction on the military reservation at Fort Mason, California, of a general supply depot for the supply departments of the United
States Army, and to construct thereon the necessary storehouses, offices, shops, stables, sheds, power houses, quarters, and other buildings, together with wharves for the accommodation of at least. four ships of the Army transport service, two hundred thousand dollars.
Fort Monroe, Virginia: Wharf, roads, and sewer: For repair and maintenance of wharf, including all necessary labor and material therefor, fuel for waiting rooms, and water, brooms, and shovels, one thousand four hundred dollars ; repairs to apron of wharf, including all necessary labor and material therefor, four thousand one hundred and fifty-five dollars ; wharfinger, nine hundred dollars ; four laborers, one thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars; in all, eight thousand three hundred and seventy-five dollars ; for one-half of said sum, to be supplied by the United States, four thousand one hundred and eighty-seven dollars and fifty cents.
Repairs and operation of roads, pavements, streets, lights, and

FAorrmtyMsauspopnl,yCdaelp. ot. Fort Monroe, Va. Repairs, etc.

general police : For rakes, shovels, and brooms; repairs to roadway,. pavements, macadam and asphalt block; repairs to street crossings; repairs to street drains ; two thousand one hundred and seventy dollars; six laborers cleaning roads, at four hundred and eighty dollars each ; in all, five thousand and fifty dollars ; for two-thirds of said sum, to be supplied by the United States, three thousand three hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-six cents .
Maintenance of sewer system: For waste, oil, and boiler repairs, Sewer system.
sewer pipe, cement, brick, and supplies, two thousand one hundred dollars; two engineers, at nine hundred dollars each ; two laborers, at five hundred dollars each ; in all, four thousand nine hundred dol-
lars; for two-thirds of said sum, to be supplied by the United States, three thousand two hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-six cents.
ceme NATIONAL CEMETERIES: For maintaining and improving national National cemeteries, including fuel for superintendents, pay of laborers and Maintenance. other employees, purchase of tools and materials, one hundred and twenty thousand dollars. For pay of seventy-six superintendents of national cemeteries, Superintendents.

sixty-two thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars.

Headstones for sol-

Headstones for graves of soldiers: For continuing the work of fur- diers'graves.

nishing headstones of durable stone or other durable material for

unmarked graves of Union soldiers, sailors, and marines in national,

post, city, town, and village cemeteries, naval cemeteries, at navy

yards and stations of the United States, and other burial places, under
p. the Acts of March third, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and Vol. 2170., Pp.. 328415..

February third, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, also forcontinuing Civilians.

the work of furnishing headstones for unmarked graves of civilians Vol. 33, p. 196. interred in post cemeteries under the Acts of April twenty-eighth, Vol . 34, p. 741.
nineteen hundred and four, and June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and

six, seventy-five thousand dollars, to be immediately available.

Repairing roadways to national cemeteries : For repairs to road- WaRyesp. airs to road.

ways to national cemeteries which have been constructed by special

authority of Congress, twelve thousand dollars: Provided, That no

Provisos. Encroachments by

railroad shall be permitted upon the right of way which may have been railroads forbidden.

acquired by the United States to a national cemetery, or to encroach upon any roads or walks constructed thereon and maintained by the United States: Provided further, That no part of this sum shall be used for repairing any roadway not owned by the United States within the corporate limits of any city, town, or village.

Restriction.

1400

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Limited to single

approach.

No part of any appropriation for national cemeteries or the repair

ofroadways thereto shall be expended in the maintenance of more than

a single approach to any national cemetery.

Burial of indigent soldiers.

Burial of indigent soldiers : For expenses of burying in the Arlington

National Cemetery, or in the cemeteries of the District of Columbia,

indigent ex-Union soldiers, ex-sailors, or ex-marines of the United

States service, either regular or volunteer, who have been honorably

discharged or retired and who die in the District of Columbia, to be

disbursed by the Secretary of War, at a cost not exceeding forty-five

dollars for such burial expenses in each case, exclusive of cost of grave,

three thousand dollars, one-half of which sum shall be paid out of the

revenues of the District of Columbia.

Antietam battle-

field .

Antietam battlefield : For repair and preservation of monuments,

Repairs, etc.

tablets , observation tower, roads, and fences, and so forth, made

Superintendent.

and constructed by the United States upon public lands within the limits of the Antietam battlefield, near Sharpsburg, Maryland, three thousand dollars.
For pay of superintendent of Antietam battlefield, said super-

intendent to perform his duties under the direction of the Quarter-

master's Department and to be selected and appointed by the Sec-

retary of War, at his discretion, the person selected and appointed

to this position to be an honorably discharged Union soldier, one thousand five hundred dollars.

Interment, etc., of remains of officers,

Disposition of remains of officers, soldiers, civilian employees, and

soldiers, etc.

so forth : For the expenses of interment, or of preparation and trans-

portation to their homes or to such national cemeteries as may be designated by proper authority, in the discretion of the Secretary of War, of the remains of officers, including acting assistant surgeons,

and enlisted men of the Army active list ; for the expenses of inter-

ment, or of preparation and transportation to their homes, of the

remains of civil employees of the Army in the employ of the War Department who die abroad, inclusive of Alaska, or on Army trans-

doRneemdopvoasltsf.romaban- ports ; for the expenses of removal of remains from abandoned posts to permanent military posts or national cemeteries, including the remains of federal soldiers, sailors, or marines interred in fields or

abandoned private and city cemeteries; and in any case where the expenses of burial or shipment of the remains of officers or enlisted

men of the Army who die on the active list are borne by individuals,

where such expenses would have been lawful claims against the
inRdieviimdbuuarlss.ement to Government, reimbursement to such individuals may be made of the amount allowed by the Government for such services, to be paid

out of the funds appropriated by this Act, but no reimbursement shall be made under this Act of such expenses incurred prior to the

first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, fifty-seven thousand five hundred dollars.

ConfederateMound. Confederate Mound, Oakwood Cemetery, Chicago: For care, proChicago.
tection, and maintenance of the plat of ground known as " Confed-

erate Mound" in Oakwood Cemetery, Chicago, two hundred and

fifty dollars.

Little Rock, Ark.

Burial of deceased indigent patients: The unexpended balance of

soBlduireirasl. of indigent the appropriation made for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and

Ante, p. 724.

eleven for expenses of burying in the Little Rock, Arkansas, National

Cemetery, including transportation thereto, indigent ex-soldiers,

ex-sailors, or ex-marines of the United States service, either regular or volunteer, who have been honorably discharged or retired and who die while patients at the Army and Navy General Hospital, Hot

Springs, Arkansas, to be disbursed by the Secretary of War, at a cost not exceeding thirty-five dollars for such burial expenses in each case, exclusive of cost of grave, is hereby reappropriated and made available

for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1401

NATIONAL MILITARY PARKS.

Military parks.

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park: For continuing the ChCahtitcaknaoomgaau.ga and establishment of the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park; for the compensation and expenses of three civilian commissioners, maps, surveys, clerical and other assistance, including three hundred dollars for necessary clerical labor under direction of the chairman of the commission, office expenses, and all other necessary expenses; foundations for State monuments; mowing; historical tablets, iron and bronze; iron gun carriages; for roads and their maintenance; the purchase of small tracts of lands heretofore authorized by law,
including eight thousand dollars for completing the improvement and maintenance of the road owned by the Government from Stevens Gap by way of Davis's Cross Roads to Crawfish Springs in the park; in all, sixty thousand dollars: Provided, That the Secretary of War CProonvviesyo.ance ofstrip is hereby authorized to convey to N. C. Steele, of Chattanooga, Ten- of landto N.C. Steele. nessee, the north five feet of the lot conveyed by him to the United · States in nineteen hundred and two, situated in Hamilton County, Tennessee, upon the payment by him of two hundred dollars as consideration therefor.

Shiloh National Military Park: For continuing the work of estab- Shiloh. lishing a national military park on the battle field of Shiloh, Tennessee; for the compensation of three civilian commissioners and the secre tary, clerical and other services, labor, historical tablets, maps and surveys, roads, purchase and transportation of supplies and materials, office and other necessary expenses, twenty-seven thousand dollars.
The Secretary of War is authorized, in his discretion, to apply the tiPounarlchlasnde. of addisum of two thousand four hundred dollars provided in the general Ante, p. 783. deficiency appropriation Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, to the purchase of so much of the one hundred and eighty-two and seventy-three one-hundredths acres of land for the Shiloh National Military Park as can be obtained by purchase or condemnation for the sum already appropriated for that purpose.

From the unexpended balance of the appropriation made by the etcR.eplacingproperty,
urgent deficiency Act approved February twenty-fifth, nineteen UAsneteo,fpb.a7l8a8.nce. hundred and ten, for replacing property owned by the Government in the Shiloh National Military Park, Shiloh, Tennessee, which was

destroyed by the cyclone of October fourteenth, nineteen hundred and

nine, the Secretary of War is authorized to expend not exceeding four thousand dollars to cover the cost of material and construction

of the office building and appurtenances thereto, including gas generator, erected under the authority contained in the deficiency Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten.
Gettysburg National Park: For continuing the work of establishing the national park at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania; for the acquisition of lands, surveys, and maps; constructing, improving, and maintaining avenues, roads, and bridges thereon; making fences and

Gettysburg.

gates ; marking the lines of battle with tablets and guns, each tablet bearing a brief legend giving historic facts, and compiled without

censure and without praise; preserving the features of the battle field and the monuments thereon; providing for a suitable office for

the commissioners in Gettysburg; compensation of three civilian commissioners, clerical and other services, expenses, and labor ; the

purchase and preparation of tablets and gun carriages and placing them in position, and all other expenses incidental to the foregoing, fifty-five thousand dollars.

Vicksburg National Military Park: For continuing the work of Vicksburg.

establishing the Vicksburg National Military Park; for the compensation of three civilian commissioners ; for clerical and other services,

labor, iron gun carriages, the mounting of siege guns, monuments,

1402

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 285. 1911 .

markers, and historical tablets giving historical facts, compiled without praise and without censure; maps, surveys; roads, bridges, restoration of earthworks, purchase of lands, purchase and transportation of supplies and materials ; and other necessary expenses, fortyfour thousand dollars.

UNDER ENGINEER DEPARTMENT.

Yellowstone.

YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK: For maintenance and repair of

improvements, including two thousand five hundred dollars for

maintenance of roads leading out of the park from the east and south boundaries and such amount as may be necessary to extend the road

to properly connect with the new Canyon Hotel, seventy thousand

dollars, to be expended by and under the direction of the Secretary of War and to be immediately available : Provided, That no portion

of this appropriation shall be expended for the removal of snow from

any of the roads for the purpose of opening them in advance of the

time when they will be cleared by seasonal changes.

VEarelclteiyoFnorogfe,mPeam.o- MEMORIAL ARCH AT VALLEY FORGE, PENNSYLVANIA: Erection of

rial arch. Ante, p. 822.

a memorial arch at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, authorized by the

Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, entitled

"An Act providing for the erection of a memorial arch at Valley

Forge, Pennsylvania," to beimmediately available andremain available
Proviso. Direction of expend. until expended : Provided, That the money herein appropriated shall

itures.

be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War and by such

officer as may be designated by him, one hundred thousand dollars.

Guilford Courthouse, N. C.

MONUMENT AT GUILFORD COURTHOUSE, NORTH CAROLINA : For

fieElrdemctoinounmoefntb.attle erection of a monument to commemorate the Battle of Guilford Court-

Ante, p. 899.

house, North Carolina, authorized by the Act approved February

thirteenth, nineteen hundred and eleven, to be immediately available

and remain available until expended, and be expended under the

direction of the Secretary of War and by such officer as may be desig-

nated by him, thirty thousand dollars.

Buildings and grounds, District of

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS IN AND AROUND WASHINGTON : For

Columbia.

improvement and care of public grounds, District of Columbia, as

follows:

Improvement and care.

For improvement and maintenance of grounds south of Executive

Mansion , four thousand dollars.

For ordinary care of greenhouses and nursery, two thousand dollars.

For repair and reconstruction of the greenhouses at the nursery, three thousand dollars.
For ordinary care of Lafayette Park, two thousand dollars.
For ordinary care of Franklin Park, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For improvement and ordinary care of Lincoln Park, two thousand dollars. Monumentgrounds. For care and improvement of Monument grounds and annex, seven thousand dollars.

For improvement, care, and maintenance of Garfield Park, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For construction and repair of post-and-chain fences, repair of high

iron fences, constructing stone coping about reservations, painting watchmen's lodges, iron fences, vases, lamps, and lamp-posts; repairing and extending water pipes, and purchase of apparatus for cleaning them ; hose ; manure, and hauling the same; removing snow and ice;

purchase and repair of seats and tools ; trees, tree and plant stakes,

labels, lime, whitewashing, and stock for nursery, flower pots, twine, baskets, wire, splints, moss, and lycopodium, to be purchased by con-

tract or otherwise, as the Secretary of War may determine; care,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 285. 1911.

1403

construction, and repair of fountains ; abating nuisances ; cleaning statues, and repairing pedestals, eighteen thousand five hundred and fifty dollars.
For improvement, care, and maintenance of various reservations,
including purchase, maintenance, and driving of horse and vehicle for official use of the officer in charge of public buildings and grounds, and of other necessary vehicles, for official use, thirty thousand dollars.

For improvement, care, and maintenance of Smithsonian grounds, three thousand dollars.

For completion of improvement between Decatur and S Streets northwest on Twenty-second Street, three thousand dollars.
For improvement and maintenance of Judiciary Park, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For grading, soiling, seeding, and planting that portion of Judiciary Park about the Court of Appeals Building and for cement walks, two thousand five hundred dollars.

For laying cement and other walks in various reservations, two thousand dollars.

For broken-stone road covering for parks, three thousand five hundred dollars.

For curbing, coping, and flagging for park roads and walks, two thousand dollars.
For care and maintenance of Potomac Park, fifteen thousand dollars. Potomac Park.

For grading, soiling, seeding, and planting that portion of Potomac Park west of the railroad embankment, twenty-five thousand dollars.
For constructing a park lodge in Potomac Park, five thousand dollars.

For oiling or otherwise treating macadam roads, four thousand
dollars. Half from District
One half of the foregoing sums under "Buildings and grounds in revenues.

and around Washington" shall be paid from the revenues of the

District of Columbia and the other half from the Treasury of the

United States.

Limit for concrete,

Under appropriations herein contained no contract shall be made etc., pavements.

for making or repairing concrete or asphalt pavements in Washington

City at a higher price than one dollar and eighty-five cents per square yard for a quality equal to the best laid in the District of Columbia

prior to July first, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, and with a base of not less than six inches in thickness.

For improvement, care, and maintenance of grounds of executive departments, one thousand dollars.

For such trees, shrubs, plants, fertilizers, and skilled labor for the

grounds of the Library of Congress as may be requested by the super-

intendent of the Library building, one thousand dollars.

For such trees, shrubs, plants, fertilizers, and skilled labor for the

grounds of the Capitol, the Senate and House Office buildings, as

may be requested by the superintendent of the Capitol building, four

thousand dollars.

Executive Mansion

For improvement and maintenance of Executive Mansion grounds grounds.

(within iron fence), five thousand dollars.

For the employment of an engineer by the officer in charge of public

buildings and grounds, two thousand four hundred dollars.

Forpurchase and repair of machinery and tools for shops at nursery,

and for the repair of shops and storehouse, one thousand dollars.

Botanical Gardens.

For removing fence and wall around the Botanical Gardens and such Re·moving fence,

grading, soiling, seeding, and sodding as may be incident thereto, two etc.

thousand five hundred dollars. For removal of the stable of the Executive Office and for such Offtiacbe.le for Executive
grading, soiling, seeding, and sodding as may be incident thereto, to Removal.

1404

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

be immediately available, one thousand dollars, or so much thereof as

Accommodation

may be necessary. of

horses, etc., by Quar- The Quartermaster General of the Army shall provide suitable termaster General. accommodations for the horses, carriages, and other vehicles of the

President and of the Executive Office, in the stables maintained in the

District of Columbia by and for the use of his department.

Executive Mansion.

Care, etc.

EXECUTIVE MANSION : For ordinary care, repair, and refurnishing

of Executive Mansion, and for purchase, maintenance, and driving of

horses and vehicles for official purposes, to be expended by contract or otherwise, as the President may determine, thirty-five thousand dollars.

For fuel for the Executive Mansion, greenhouses, and stable, six · thousand dollars.

For care and maintenance of greenhouses, Executive Mansion, nine thousand dollars.

For repairs to greenhouses, Executive Mansion, three thousand

dollars.

Traveling expenses ofthe President.

For traveling expenses of the President of the United States, to be

expended in his discretion and accounted for on his certificate solely,

twenty-five thousand dollars.

Lighting Executive Mansion, etc.

For lighting the Executive Mansion, the grounds, the greenhouses,

and the stables, including all necessary expenses of installation,

maintenance, and repair, eight thousand six hundred dollars , or so much thereof as may be necessary.

Lighting and heat- LIGHTING AND HEATING FOR THE PUBLIO GROUNDS : For lighting

'ing public grounds. the public grounds, watchmen's lodges, offices, stable, and green-

houses at the propagating gardens, including all necessary expenses of installation, maintenance, and repair, fifteen thousand eight hundred dollars ;

For heating offices, office stable, watchmen's lodges, and green-

houses at the propagating gardens, three thousand eight hundred and

twenty dollars ;

Half from District

revenues.

In all, nineteen thousand six hundred and twenty dollars, or so

much thereof as may be necessary, one half of which sum shall be

paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other half

from the Treasury of the United States.

Payment for lighting limited.

Hereafter no greater sum shall be paid any company for lighting

Ante, p. 1008.

any gas or electric lamp in the public grounds, or for installing or

moving the same, than is paid by the District of Columbia for similar

services, and no contract shall be required to be entered into for

Settlement of con-

tract.

lighting the public grounds.

Any settlement for arc lighting under

the existing contract with the Potomac Electric Power Company

effected by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall apply

to the contract with the same company for arc lights for the public

grounds and highway bridge.

Statue of John Paul

Jones.

UNVEILING STATUE OF JOHN PAUL JONES : For unveiling and dedi-

inEgx. penses of unvell- cating the statue of John Paul Jones and for each and every purpose connected therewith, including erecting and taking down reviewing

stands and putting the grounds in sightly condition, to be available

until expended, two thousand five hundred dollars. Government tele- TELEGRAPH TO CONNECT THE CAPITOL WITH THE DEPARTMENTS graph.

AND GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : For care and repair of existing

lines, five hundred dollars.

Washington Monument.

WASHINGTON MONUMENT: For the care and maintenance of the

Maintenance.

Washington Monument, namely : For one custodian, at one hundred

dollars per month; one steam engineer, at eighty dollars per month; one assistant steam engineer, at seventy dollars per month; one fireman, at fifty-five dollars per month ; one assistant fireman, at fifty-

five dollars per month; one conductor of elevator car, at seventy-five " dollars per month; one attendant on floor, at sixty dollars per month;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1405

one attendant on top floor, at sixty dollars per month; three night

and day watchmen, at sixty dollars per month each; in all, eight thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars.

For fuel, lights, oil, waste, packing, tools, matches, paints, brushes, Expenses.

brooms, lanterns, rope, nails, screws, lead, electric lights, heating

apparatus, oil stoves for elevator car and upper and lower floors;

repairs to engines, boilers, dynamos, elevator, and repairs of all kinds

connected with the Monument and machinery; and purchase of all

necessary articles for keeping the Monument, machinery, elevator,

and electric plant in good order, three thousand dollars.

REPAIRS OF BUILDING WHERE ABRAHAM LINCOLN DIED:

For paint-

Building where Abraham Lincoln

ing and miscellaneous repairs, two hundred dollars.

died .

IMPROVEMENTS, WAKEFIELD, VIRGINIA: For repairs to fences and Wakefield, Va.

cleaning up and maintaining grounds about the monument, one
hundred dollars. COMMISSION OF FINE ARTS : To meet the expenses made necessary ACommission ofFine

by the Act approved May seventeenth, nineteen hundred and ten, Ante, p. 377.

entitled " An Act establishing a Commission of Fine Arts," the pur-

chase of periodicals, maps, and books of reference, and necessary office furniture and fixtures, to be disbursed on vouchers approved

by the commission, by the officer in charge of public buildings and
grounds, who shall be the secretary and shall act as the executive officer of said commission, eight thousand eight hundred dollars.
RIVERS AND HARBORS, CONTRACT WORK: Toward the construction coRnitvrearcst waonrdkh.arbors, of works on harbors and rivers, under contract and otherwise, and within the limits authorized by law, namely:
For works authorized by the river and harbor Act of eighteen hun- Vol. 30, p. 1121.

dred and ninety-nine, as follows:

Improving channel in Gowanus Bay, New York: For continuing HoBoaky CRhiadngneealnsd, NReewd improvement of Bay Ridge and Red Hook Channels, in completion York. of contract authorization, two hundred and forty-one thousand dollars.

Improving harbor at San Francisco, California: For continuing San Francisco, Cal improvement by the removal of Centissima and Rincon Reef rocks, thirty thousand dollars.

For works authorized by the river and harbor Act of nineteen Vol. 32, p. 831.
hundred and two, as follows: Arthur Kill, N. Y.
Improving Arthur Kill, New York and New Jersey: For con- and N. J.
tinuing improvement of channel from Kill van Kull to Raritan Bay, in completion of contract authorization, sixty-one thousand dollars.
For works authorized by the river and harbor Act of nineteen Vol. 34, p. 1073.
hundred and seven, as follows: Improving harbor at Boston, Massachusetts: For continuing im- Boston, Mass.
provement of thirty-five foot channel, nine hundred thousand dollars. Cold Spring Inlet,
Improving Cold Spring Inlet, New Jersey: For continuing im- N.. provement with a view to securing a depth of twenty-five feet, one hundred and thirty thousand dollars.
Improving harbor at Cleveland, Ohio: For continuing improvement Cleveland, Ohio. in accordance with plan for new harbor entrance and breakwater extension, two hundred thousand dollars.

Improving Detroit River, Michigan: For continuing improvement Detroit River, Mich. of Livingstone Channel in accordance with plan " B," east route, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Improving harbor at Ludington, Michigan: For continuing im- Ludington, Mich.
provement, in completion of contract authorization, two hundred ·
and nineteen thousand and eighty-seven dollars. Improving Ohio River: For continuing construction of Lock and OLhoicokRainvder,Dam No.
Dam Numbered Twenty-six, in completion . of contract authoriza- 26.
tion, one hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars.

1406

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Passaic River, N. J. Improving Passaic River, New Jersey: For continuing improve-

ment of channel in Newark Bay and Passaic River, sixty thousand dollars.

Saint Marys River, Mich.

Improving Saint Marys River, Michigan: For continuing improve-

New canal, etc. ment at the falls by the construction of a new lock, with a separate

canal, five hundred thousand dollars.

San Luis Obispo, Cal.

Improving harbor at San Luis Obispo, California: For continuing

improvement in completion of contract authorization, sixty-four

thousand dollars.

Ante, p. 630.

For works authorized by the river and harbor act of nineteen hun-

dred and ten, as follows:

Arthur Kill, N. Y. and N. J.

Improving Arthur Kill, New York and New Jersey: For continuing

improvement of channel north of Shooters Island, ninety thousand

dollars.

Ashtabula, Ohio.

Improving harbor at Ashtabula, Ohio : For continuing improve-

ment in completion of contract authorization, three hundred and

seventy-six thousand four hundred and thirty dollars. BlackWarrior, War- Improving Black Warrior, Warrior, and Tombigbee Rivers , AlaRivers,AlaT.ombigbee bama: For continuing improvement by the construction of locks and

dams in completion of contract authorization, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Cape Fear River, N. C.

Improving Cape Fear River, North Carolina: For continuing im-

provement by the construction of locks and dams above Wilmington, two hundred thousand dollars.

Cumberland River Improving Cumberland River below Nashville, Tennessee : For

bTeenlno. w Nashville, continuing improvement by the construction of locks and dams, two

hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Delaware River, Pa.

and N. J.

Improving Delaware River, Pennsylvania and New Jersey: For

TrPehntiolna. delphia to continuing improvement by excavating a channel twelve feet deep from Allegheny Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Trenton,

Fairport, Ohio.

New Jersey, one hundred and sixty thousand dollars. Improving harbor at Fairport, Ohio : For completing improvement,
one hundred and five thousand dollars.

KyKentucky River, . Improving Kentucky River, Kentucky: For continuing improvement by the construction of Locks and Dams Numbered Thirteen

and Fourteen, in completion of contract authorization, sixty-five thousand dollars.

Newport, R. I.

Improving harbor at Newport, Rhode Island : For completing

improvement, one hundred and eighty-three thousand dollars."

Ohio River. Application to speci-

Improving Ohio River below Pittsburg, Pennsylvania : For con-

fied locks anddams. tinuing improvement by the construction of Locks and Dams Num-

bered Seven, Nine, Ten, Twelve, Nineteen, Twenty, Twenty-nine,

Forty-one, and Forty-eight, one million seven hundred and ten thou-

sand dollars.

Providence River

and Harbor, R. I.

Improving Providence River and Harbor, Rhode Island : For con-

tinuing improvement between Kettle Point and Gaspee Point and on

the western side of the harbor at and above Fields Point, three hun-

dred thousand dollars .

Puget Sound-Lake Washington Water- Puget Sound-Lake Washington Waterway: For continuing im-

way.

provement by the construction of a double lock, with the necessary

accessory works, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Saginaw River, Mich.

Improving Saginaw River, Michigan : For continuing improve-

ment, three hundred thousand dollars.

Saint Andrews Bay, Fla.

Improving Saint Andrews Bay, Florida : For completing improve-

ment, one hundred and twenty-eight thousand five hundred and sixty

dollars.

Siuslaw River, Oreg. Improving Siuslaw River, Oregon : For continuing improvement by

Maps.

jetty construction at the mouth, fifty thousand dollars . MAPS, WAR DEPARTMENT: For publication of engineer maps for

use of the War Department, inclusive of war maps, five thousand dollars .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1407

SURVEY OF NORTHERN AND NORTHWESTERN LAKES : For survey of anSdurveynoorfthnwoerstthern northern and northwestern lakes, including all necessary expenses for lakes. · preparing, correcting, extending, printing, and issuing charts and bul-

letins, and of investigating lake levels, with a view to their regulation, to be immediately available, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That the survey of said northern and northwestern lakes be extended so as to include the lakes and other natural navi-

Proviso. Extension.

gable waters embraced in the navigation system of the "New York

Canals."

CALIFORNIA

DÉBRIS

COMMISSION

:

For

defraying

the

expenses

of

the

California Commission.

Débris

commission in carrying on the work authorized by the Act of Congress approved March first, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, fifteen thousand dollars.
HARBOR OF NEW YORK: For prevention of obstructive and injuri-

Vol. 27, p. 507.
New York Harbor. Deposi

ous deposits within the harbor and adjacent waters of New York City :

For pay of inspectors, deputy inspectors, office force, and expenses Inspectors.

of office, ten thousand two hundred and sixty dollars; For pay of crews and maintenance of patrol fleet, six steam tugs, Crews, etc.

and one launch, seventy-five thousand dollars;

In all, eighty-five thousand two hundred and sixty dollars.

INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS COMMISSION : For continuing the work wIanytserCnoamtmiionsaslioWnat. erof investigation and report by the International Waterways Commis- "Vol. 32, p. 378.

sion, authorized by section four of the river and harbor Act approved June thirteenth, nineteen hundred and two, twenty thousand dollars.
WRECK OF BATTLESHIP MAINE : For additional amount for the Battleship " Maine." Removing wreck
raising or the removal of the wreck of the battleship Maine from the from Habana harbor. harbor of Habana, in accordance with the provisions of the Act Ante, pp. 353, 789
approved May ninth, nineteen hundred and tên, three hundred and

fifty thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.

Medical Department.

Artificial limbs : For furnishing artificial limbs and apparatus, or Artificial limbs, etc.

commutation therefor, and necessary transportation, three hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Appliances for disabled soldiers: For furnishing surgical appliances etScu.rgicalappliances,

to persons disabled in the military or naval service of the United States, and not entitled to artificial limbs or trusses for the same disabilities, two thousand dollars.
Trusses for disabled soldiers : For trusses for persons entitled thereto under section eleven hundred and seventy-six, Revised Statutes of the United States, and the Act of Congress amendatory

Trusses. R. S., sec. 1176, p.211. Vol. 20, p. 353.

thereof approved March third, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine,

five thousand dollars.

Medical Museum.

Repairs to Army Medical Museum Building: For general repairs to Repairs tobuilding.

the Army Medical Museum Building, at the corner of Seventh and

B Streets southwest, in the city of Washington, District of Columbia,

including the repairing and repainting of the roof, the cleaning, sizing,

and painting of the interior walls and ceilings above the basement

and of the stairway hall leading to the basement, the whitewashing

of the walls and ceilings in the basement, and toward the renovation

and repair of the toilet rooms and plumbing, to be immediately
available, ten thousand dollars. Support and medical treatment of destitute patients : For the sup- taPlrovidence Hospl-
port and medical treatment of medical and surgical patients who are Destitute patients.

destitute, in the city of Washington, under a contract to be made

with the Providence Hospital by the Surgeon General of the Army,

nineteen thousand dollars, one half of which sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other half from the

Treasury of the United States.

1408

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Heating, lighting, and power plant.

For heating, lighting, and power plant for Providence Hospital,

including necessary structure, machinery, and equipment, and for

each and every purpose connected therewith, thirty-four thousand

nine hundred and fifty dollars, to be drawn by and expended under

the direction of the said hospital, and to be paid one-half out of the

revenues of the District of Columbia and one-half out of the Treasury of the United States. Garfield Hospital. Garfield Memorial Hospital : For maintenance, to enable it to proDestitute patients. vide medical and surgical treatment to persons unable to pay there-

for, under a contract to be made with the Board of Charities of the

District of Columbia, nineteen thousand dollars, one half of which

Improvement grounds.

sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the other half from the Treasury of the United States. of For improvement of grounds of Garfield Memorial Hospital, in-
cluding fences, cement walks, and roadways, thirteen thousand three

hundred dollars, to be drawn by the board of directors of the hospital

and applied by them to the objects specified, and to be paid one- half from the revenues of the District of Columbia and one-half from the

Treasury of the United States.

Children's Hospital. Additions, etc.

For further aid to the Children's Hospital on account of the addi-

tion and alteration and improvements of the building and for fur-

nishing and equipment of whatever kind, in the discretion of the

board of directors, twenty-five thousand dollars, to be paid to said

directors and to be applied by them exclusively to the objects named herein, one-half out of the revenues of the District of Columbia and

one-half out of the Treasury of the United States.

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers.

NATIONAL HOME FOR DISABLED VOLUNTEER SOLDIERS.

For the support of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer

Soldiers, as follows:

Dayton, Ohio.

Central Branch, Dayton, Ohio : For current expenses, namely:

Pay of officers and noncommissioned officers of the home, with such

exceptions as are hereinafter noted, and their clerks, weighmasters, and orderlies ; also payments for chaplains, religious instruction, and

entertainment for the members of the home, printers, bookbinders, librarians, musicians, telegraph and telephone operators, guards,

janitors, watchmen, and fire company ; for all property and materials

purchased for their use, including repairs not done by the home; for necessary expenditures for articles of amusement, library books,

magazines, papers, pictures, and musical instruments, and for repairs

Proviso.

not done by the home; and for stationery, advertising, legal advice,

Effects of deceased for payments due heirs of deceased members: Provided, That all

members.

receipts on account of the effects of deceased members during the

Subsistence.

fiscal year shall also be available for such payments; and for such other expenditures as can not properly be included under other heads of expenditure, sixty-five thousand dollars ;
For subsistence, namely: Pay of commissary sergeants, commissary

Household.

clerks, porters, laborers, bakers, cooks, dishwashers, waiters, and others employed in the subsistence department; the cost of all articles purchased for the regular ration, and the subsistence of civilian employees regularly employed and residing at the branch, their freight, preparation, and serving; aprons, caps, and jackets for kitchen and diningroom employees; of tobacco; of all dining-room and kitchen furniture and utensils, bakers' and butchers' tools and appliances, and their repair not done by the home, two hundred and eighty-five thousand seven hundred and seventy-three dollars ;
For household, namely: Expenditures for furniture for officers' quarters; for bedsteads, bedding, bedding material, and all other

articles required in the quarters of the members, and of civilian

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1409

employees permanently employed and residing at the branch, and for their repair, if they are not repaired by the home; for fuel, including fuel for cooking, heat, and light; for engineers and firemen, bathhouse keepers, janitors, laundry employees, and for all labor, materials, and appliances required for household use, and for their repairs, unless the repairs are made by the home, one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars ;

For hospital, namely: Pay of assistant surgeons, matrons, druggists, Hospital. hospital clerks and stewards, ward masters, nurses, cooks, waiters,

readers, drivers, gravediggers, funeral escort, janitors, and for such other services as may be necessary for the care of the sick; burial of

the dead; for surgical instruments and appliances, medical books, medicine, liquors, fruits, and other necessaries for the sick not on the

regular ration ; for bedsteads, bedding, and bedding materials, and

all other special articles necessary for the wards, for hospital furni-

ture, including special articles and appliances for hospital kitchen and dining room; carriage, hearse, stretchers, coffins ; for tools of gravediggers, and for all repairs to hospital furniture and appliances not

done by the home, seventy thousand dollars ; For transportation, namely: For transportation of members of the
home, two thousand dollars ; For repairs, namely: Pay of chief engineer, builders, blacksmiths,

Transportation. Repairs..

carpenters, painters, gas fitters, electrical workers, plumbers, tinsmiths, steam fitters, stone and brick masons, whitewashers , and laborers, and for all appliances and materials used under this head ; also for repairs of roads and other improvements of a permanent character, sixty thousand dollars: Provided, That no part of the appropriation for repairs for any of the branch homes shall be used for the construction of any new building;
For farm, namely : Pay of farmer, chief gardener, harness makers, farm hands, gardeners, horseshoers, stablemen, teamsters, dairymen, herders, and laborers, and for all tools, appliances, and materials required for farm, garden, and dairy work; for grain, hay, and straw, dressing, seed, carriages, wagons, carts, and other conveyances; for all animals purchased for stock or for work (including animals in the park) ; for all materials, tools, and labor for flower garden, lawn, and

Farm.

park; and for construction of roads and walks, and for repairs not done by the home, twenty-four thousand five hundred dollars;
In all, six hundred and twenty-two thousand two hundred and seventy-three dollars;
Northwestern Branch, Milwaukee, Wisconsin: For current expenses
including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-six thousand five hundred dollars;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, one hundred and thirty-seven thousand one hundred and four dollars ;
For household, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, seventy thousand dollars ;
For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head

Milwaukee, Wis. Current expenses.
Subsistence.
Household. Hospital.

for the Central Branch, forty-three thousand five hundred dollars; For transportation of members of the home, one thousand eight Transportation.
hundred dollars;

For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, thirty-four thousand dollars;
For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, nine thousand dollars ;
In all, three hundred and forty-one thousand nine hundred and four dollars.
Eastern Branch, Togus, Maine: For current expenses, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-eight thousand dollars ;

Repairs. Farm.
Togus, Me. Current expenses.

1410

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Subsistence.

For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, one hundred and thirty-five thousand two hundred and seventy-four dollars;

Household.

For household, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, seventy-two thousand dollars ;

Hospital.

For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head

for the Central Branch, forty-three thousand dollars ;

Transportation.

For transportation of members of the home, one thousand two

hundred dollars ;

Repairs.

For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head

Farm .

for the Central Branch, fifty thousand dollars ; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for

the Central Branch, seventeen thousand five hundred dollars ;

In all, three hundred and sixty-six thousand nine hundred and seventy-four dollars .

HCuarmrpetnotne,xVpean.ses. Subsistence.

Southern Branch, Hampton, Virginia: For current expenses, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-eight thousand dollars ;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, one hundred and seventy-three thousand

Household.

three hundred and thirty-eight dollars ; For household, including the same objects specified under this head

Hospital.

for the Central Branch, seventy-seven thousand dollars ; For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head

Transportation. Repairs.

for the Central Branch, forty-five thousand dollars ;
For transportation of members of the home, two thousand dollars ; For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head for

Bridge. Farm .

the Central Branch, forty-two thousand dollars ; For bridge across Johns Creek, sixteen thousand dollars ; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for

the Central Branch, ten thousand dollars ;

In all, four hundred and thirteen thousand three hundred and

Leavenworth, Kans. thirty-eight dollars . Current expenses. Western Branch, Leavenworth, Kansas: For current expenses,
including the same objects specified under this head for the Central

Subsistence.

Branch, fifty-two thousand dollars ; For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, one hundred and seventy-nine thousand

Household.
Proviso. Restriction.

eight hundred and fifty-two dollars ; For household, including the same objects specified under this head
for the Central Branch, eighty-four thousand dollars : Provided, That

no part of this sum shall be used for fuel oil if it shall appear to the

board of managers that coal as a fuel can be procured and used more

Hospital. Transportation. Repairs.

economically ; For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head
for the Central Branch, fifty-three thousand dollars ;
For transportation of members of the home, two thousand five hundred dollars ;
For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head

Additional land. Farm .

for the Central Branch, forty-five thousand dollars; For purchase of additional land, ten thousand dollars; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for

the Central Branch, seventeen thousand dollars ;

In all, three hundred and eighty-three thousand three hundred and

Santa Monica, Cal. Current expenses.
Subsistence.

fifty-two dollars. Pacific Branch, Santa Monica, California: For current expenses,
including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty- eight thousand dollars;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, one hundred and seventy-four thousand

six hundred and fifty-five dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1411

For household, including the same objects specified under this Household.

head for the Central Branch, sixty thousand dollars ; For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head Hospital.

for the Central Branch, fifty-two thousand dollars;

"

For transportation of members of the home, three thousand five Transportation. hundred dollars;

For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head Repairs.

for the Central Branch, forty thousand dollars;

For one new boiler, five thousand dollars ;

New boiler. Water- softening

For water-softening plant, six thousand dollars ;

plant.

Officers' quarters. For two cottages for officers' quarters, five thousand seven hun-

dred dollars ;

Tuberculosis ward.

For tuberculosis ward, seven thousand seven hundred and thirty

dollars ; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for Farm.

the Central Branch, twelve thousand dollars ;

In all, four hundred and fourteen thousand five hundred and eightyfive dollars.

Marion Branch, Marion, Indiana: For current expenses, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-four thousand dollars ;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, one hundred and twenty-two thousand one hundred and seventy-one dollars ;
For household, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, and for necessary expenses for the procure-
ment, piping, and preservation of natural gas, oil, and water, fortyfive thousand dollars ;
For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, thirty-eight thousand dollars;
For transporation of members of the home, one thousand dollars ; For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, thirty thousand dollars;
For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, twelve thousand five hundred dollars ;
In all, two hundred and ninety-two thousand six hundred and seventy-one dollars.
Danville Branch, Danville, Illinois : For current expenses, including

MCuarrrieonnt, eIxnpde.nses.
Subsistence.
Household.
Hospital. Transportation. Repairs. Farmi.
Danville, Ill. Current expenses.

the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-eight thousand dollars ;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, one hundred and seventy-three thousand and forty-five dollars ;
For household, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, seventy-three thousand dollars;
For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head

Subsistence. Household. Hospital.

for the Central Branch, forty-six thousand dollars; For transportation of members of the home, two thousand dollars. For repairs, including the same objects specified' under this head
for the Central Branch, thirty thousand dollars;

Transportation. Repairs,

For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for Farm. the Central Branch, twelve thousand dollars;

In all, three hundred and eighty-four thousand and forty-five dollars.
Mountain Branch, Johnson City, Tennessee: For current expenses, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, forty-two thousand dollars;
For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this head for the Central Branch, one hundred and thirteen thousand two hundred and forty dollars ;

Johnson City,Tenn. Current expenses.
Subsistence

1412

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Household.

For household, including the same objects specified under this head

for the Central Branch, fifty thousand dollars;

Hospital.

For hospital, including the same objects specified under the head

Transportation. Repairs.

of Central Branch, thirty thousand dollars ; For transportation of members of the home, three thousand dollars ; For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head

Farm .

for the Central Branch, thirty thousand dollars; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for

the Central Branch, twenty thousand dollars;

In all, two hundred and eighty-eight thousand two hundred and forty dollars.

Hot Springs, 8. Dak. Battle Mountain Sanitarium, Hot Springs, South Dakota: For Current expenses.
current expenses, including the same objects specified under this

Subsistence.

head for the Central Branch, twenty-seven thousand dollars ; For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this

Household.

head for the Central Branch, thirty-two thousand dollars ; For household, including the same objects specified under this

head for the Central Branch, forty-one thousand dollars;

Hospital.

For hospital, including the same objects specified under this head

for the Central Branch, thirty-six thousand dollars ;

Transportation.

For transportation of members of the home, nine thousand

dollars ;

Repairs.

For repairs, including the same objects specified under this head

Farm .

for the Central Branch, ten thousand dollars; For farm, including the same objects specified under this head for

the Central Branch, seven thousand dollars ; Tuberculosis ward. For addition to tuberculosis ward, six thousand one hundred

dollars ; Power, etc., plant. For electric-lighting plant, including the enlargement of the power

Shop buildings.

house and one new boiler, thirty thousand dollars.
For shop buildings with sleeping rooms, eight thousand three hundred dollars ;

In all, one hundred and seventy-six thousand four hundred dollars.

Clothing for all branches.

For clothing for all the branches, namely : Expenditures for cloth-

ing, underclothing, hats, caps, boots, shoes, socks, and overalls ; also all

sums expended for labor, materials, machines, tools, and appliances

employed, and for use in the tailor shops, knitting shops, and shoe

shops, or other home shops in which any kind of clothing is made or

repaired, two hundred and eighty-five thousand dollars.

Salaries, etc., Beard of Managers.

For salaries of officers and employees of the Board of Managers, and

for outside relief and incidental expenses, namely:

For president of the Board of Managers, four thousand dollars; secretary of the Board of Managers, five hundred dollars; general treasurer, who shall not be a member of the Board of Managers, four thousand five hundred dollars ; inspector general and chief surgeon,

four thousand dollars ; assistant general treasurer and assistant

inspector general, three thousand dollars ; assistant.inspector general, three thousand dollars ; clerical services for the offices of the president,

general treasurer, and inspector general and chief surgeon, fifteen thousand five hundred dollars; clerical services for managers, four

thousand five hundred dollars ; for traveling expenses of the Board of

Managers, their officers and employees, including officers of branch homes when detailed on inspection work, sixteen thousand dollars ; for outside relief, five hundred dollars; for rent, legal services, medical

examinations, stationery, telegrams, and other incidental expenses,

seven thousand dollars; in all, sixty-two thousand five hundred dollars.

In all, for National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, four

Proviso. Intoxicants.

million thirty-one thousand two hundred and eighty-two dollars. Provided, That no part of the foregoing appropriations shall be
expended for any purpose at any branch of the National Home for

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1413

Disabled Volunteers that maintains or permits to be maintained on its
premises a bar, canteen, or other place where beer, wine, or other intoxicating liquors are sold.
State or Territorial homes for disabled soldiers and sailors : For h, oSmteatse.andTerritorial continuing aid to State or Territorial homes for the support of disabled volunteer soldiers, in conformity with the Act approved August Vol . 25, p. 450. twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, including all classes of soldiers admissible to the National Home for Disabled Vol-
unteer Soldiers , one million two hundred thousand dollars : Provided, PIrnotvoixsiocsa.nts. That no part of this appropriation shall be apportioned to any State
or Territorial home that maintains a bar or canteen where intoxicating liquors are sold: Provided further, That for any sum or sums collected inCmoatlelse.ctions from in any manner from inmates of such State or Territorial homes to be used forthe support of said homes a like amount shall be deducted
from the aid herein provided for, but this proviso shall not apply to any State or Territorial home into which the wives or widows of soldiers are admitted and maintained.

BACK PAY AND BOUNTY.

Back pay and bounty.

For payment of amounts for arrears of pay of two and three Payment of.

year volunteers, for bounty to volunteers and their widows and legal Vol. 14, p. 822.

heirs, for bounty under the Act of July twenty-eighth, eighteen hun-

dred

and

sixty-six,

and

for

amounts

for

commutation

of

rations

to

Commutation rations.

of

prisoners of war in States of the so-called Confederacy, and to soldiers

on furlough, that may be certified to be due by the accounting officers

of the Treasury during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, one hundred thousand dollars.
For payment of amounts for arrears of pay and allowances on account of service of officers and men ofthe Army during the war with

WarwithSpain, etc.

Spain and in the Philippine Islands that may be certified to be due by

the accounting officers of the Treasury during the fiscal year nineteen

hundred and twelve and that are chargeable to the appropriations

that have been carried to the surplus fund, one thousand dollars.

UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

Interior Depart ment.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Public buildings.

Repairs of buildings,

Interior Department :

For repairs of Interior

Repairs to Depart ment buildings.

Department and Pension Buildings, and of the old Post Office

Department Building, occupied by the Interior Department, including

preservation and repair of steam-heating and electric-lighting plants

and elevators, thirty thousand dollars, of which sum not exceeding

seven thousand five hundred dollars may be expended for day labor,

except for work done by contract. Installing coal and ash conveyer, and so forth : For installing coal Central heating plant.
and ash conveyer, ash house and hopper, coal crusher and necessary

motors, and enlarging and improving present coal vaults in connection with the central heating plant in the old post-office building, eight thousand dollars.
New roof, Patent Office Building: For new roof on the Patent Office Building, twelve thousand dollars.

Patent Office. New roof.

Capitol Building : For work at Capitol and for general repairs thereof, including flags for the east and west fronts of the center of the Capitol and for Senate and House Office Buildings ; flagstaffs, halyards, and tackle, wages of mechanics and laborers ; purchase, maintenance, and driving of office vehicle, and not exceeding one hundred dollars for the purchase of technical and necessary reference books and city directory, thirty thousand dollars.

CRaepiatiorls., etc.

88740°-vol 36, PT 1--11--91

1414

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Works ofart.

For continuing the work of cleaning and repairing works of art in

the Capitol, including repairs to frames, under the direction of the

Joint Committee on the Library, one thousand five hundred dollars. Improving grounds. Improving the Capitol grounds : For the care and improvement of

the grounds surrounding the Capitol , Senate and House Office Build-

ings, pay of one clerk, mechanics, gardeners, for fertilizers, repairs to pavements, walks, and roadways, thirty thousand dollars. MCaapiinttoelnpaonwceer.plant. Capitol power plant: For lighting the Capitol, Senate and House

meStuepresr.intendent Services, etc.

Office Buildings, and Congressional Library Building, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate stables and engine house, House stables, Maltby Building, and folding and storage rooms of the of Senate ; pay of superintendent of meters, at the rate of one thousand six hundred dollars per annum, who shall inspect all gas and electric meters of the Government in the District of Columbia without addi-
tional compensation; for necessary personal and other services; and for materials and labor in connection with the maintenance and opera-

tion of the heating, lighting, and power plant, and substations con-

nected therewith, to be expended by the Superintendent of the Capi-

tol Building and Grounds under the supervision and direction of the

inUncodnetrrocloomfmiHsosuisoen Commission in control of the House Office Building appointed under

Office Building.
Vol. 84, p. 1365. Proviso.

the Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven, ninety thousand dollars : Provided, That hereafter the heating, lighting, and

etNc.a, mpleanto.f heating, power plant constructed under the terms of the Act approved April

Vol. 33,p. 479.

twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and four, shall be known as the

Filling vacancies. Capitol power plant; and hereafter all vacancies occurring in the

force operating said plant and the substations in connection therewith

shall be filled by said superintendent with the approval of said com-

mission in control of the House Office Building appointed under the
Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven. Repairs, stable, etc. For repairs and improvements to steam fire-engine house, and Sen-

ate and House stables, and for repairs to and paving of floors and

courtyards of same, one.thousand five hundred dollars.

Enlarging grounds. Ante, p. 738.

Enlarging the Capitol Grounds: To continue the acquisition of the

land described in the sundry civil appropriation Act, approved June

twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, and as authorized and pre-

scribed in said Act, for enlarging the Capitol Grounds, five hundred

Proviso. Commission

contin-

thousand

dollars :

Provided,

That the persons

designated

in said Act

ued.

to acquire the land described therein for the purposes stated, shall

continue to serve under said law and to exercíse all the powers and

duties conferred thereby in every particular and as fully, notwith-

standing either or any of them may have ceased by operation of law,.

to occupy the office held at the time of the passage of the said sundry

civil Act; and the said persons acting under said sundry civil Act

shall constitute and be known as a commission, any two of whom

shall constitute a quorum and be competent to transact the duties devolving on them.

Public lands.

PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE.

Registers and re-

ceivers.

Salaries and commissions of registers and receivers: For salaries

and commissions of registers of district land offices and receivers of

public moneys at district land offices, at not exceeding three thousand

dollars per annum each, five hundred and sixty thousand dollars.

Contingent expenses. Contingent expenses of land offices: For clerk hire, rent, and other

Provisos. Per diem .

incidental expenses of the district land offices, including the exchange of typewriters, three hundred and twenty thousand dollars : Provided,
That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of per

diem, in lieu of subsistence, not exceeding four dollars per day, of

clerks detailed to examine the books and management of district land

offices and to assist in the operation of said offices, and in the opening

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1415

of new land offices and reservations, while on such duty, and for

actual necessary traveling expenses of said clerks, including necessary

sleeping-car fares : Provided further, That no expenses chargeable to peRnedsittruircetsi.on on exthe Government shall be incurred by registers and receivers in the
conduct of local land offices except upon previous specific authoriza-

tion by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.

Expenses of depositing public moneys: For expenses of depositing money received from the disposal of public lands, by registered mail, bank exchange, or otherwise, as may be directed by the Secretary of the Interior, and under rules to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, one thousand dollars.

Depositing moneys.

Depredations on public timber, protecting public lands, and settle Timber depreda ment of claims for swamp land and swamp-land indemnity: To meet tsiwoanms,pp-rloatnedctcilnagi,masn. d the expenses of protecting timber on the public lands, and forthe more efficient execution of the law and rules relating to the cutting thereof; of protecting public lands from illegal and fraudulent entry or appro-

priation, and of adjusting claims for swamp lands, and indemnity for swamp lands, six hundred and fifty thousand dollars, of which sum two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is for the purpose of bringing

up the work of the General Land Office hereunder so as to make the same current, and not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars addi-

tional for expenses of hearings held by order of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to determine whether alleged fraudulent

entries are of that character or have been made in compliance with law, and not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars additional for

clerk hire, rent, and other incidental expenses of district land offices:

Provided, That agents and others employed under this appropriation shall be allowed per diem, subject to such rules and regulations as he may prescribe in lieu of subsistence, at a rate not exceeding three dollars per day each and actual necessary expenses for transportation, including necessary sleeping- car fares, except when agents are em-

Preorvdiiseo.m. Alaska service.

ployed in the District of Alaska they may be allowed not exceeding

six dollars per day each, in lieu of subsistence.

Expenses

of hearings

in

land

entries :

For

expenses

of hearings

or Hearings entries.

in

land

other proceedings held by order of the Commissioner of the General

Land Office to determine the character of lands ; whether alleged

fraudulent entries are of that character or have been made in compli-
ance with law; and of hearings in disbarment proceedings, thirtyfive thousand dollars.

Reproducing plats of surveys: To enable the Commissioner of the ofRseuprrvoedysu.cing plats General Land Office to continue to reproduce worn and defaced

official plats of surveys on file, and other plats constituting a part of the records of said office, and to furnish local land offices with the same, three thousand five hundred dollars.
landa to Examinations of desert lands : To enable the Secretary of the Inte- StDaetesse.rt rior to examine, under such regulations and at such compensation, as he may prescribe, the desert lands selected by the States under the Vol. 28, p. 122.

provisions of section four of the Act of Congress approved August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and the Act of May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and eight, one thousand dollars: Provided, That if such examinations be made by detailed clerks or employees of the department, they shall be entitled to actual necessaryexpenses for transportation, including necessary sleeping-car fares, and not exceeding three dollars per day in lieu of subsistence.

Vol. 85, p. 346.
Proviso. Expenses.

Restoration of lands in forest reserves : To enable the Secretary of FAdovreersttirseisnegrvreess.torathe Interior to meet the expenses of advertising the restoration to the tion of lands, etc.

public domain of lands in forest reserves, or of lands temporarily
withdrawn for forest-reserve purposes, twelve thousand dollars. Opening Indian reservations (reimbursable) : To meet the expenses reOseprevantiionngstoIenndtiray.n

pertaining to the opening to entry and settlement of such Indian Expenses.

1416

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. . 285. 1911.

Proviso. Reimbursements.

reservation lands as may beopened during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve : Provided, That the expenses pertaining to the opening of each of said reservations and paid for out of this appropriation shall be reimbursed to the United States from the money received from the sale of the lands embraced in said reservations , respectively, twenty-two thousand dollars.

Surveying.

SURVEYING THE PUBLIC LANDS.

Rates.

For surveys and resurveys of public lands, under the supervision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office and direction of the

Provisos. Preferences.
Vol. 25, p. 676. Vol. 26, pp. 216, 222.

Secretary of the Interior, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars : Provided, That in expending this appropriation preference shall be given, first, in favor of surveying townships occupied, in whole or in part, by actual settlers and of lands granted to the States by the Act approved February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine,

and the Acts approved July third and July tenth, eighteen hundred

and ninety; and, second, to surveying under such other Acts as pro-

vide for land grants to the several States and Territories, except railroad land grants and such indemnity lands as the several States and

Territories may be entitled to in lieu of lands granted them for educational and other purposes which may have been sold or included in some reservation or otherwise disposed of, and other surveys shall

include lands adapted to agriculture and lands deemed advisable to

Compensation surveyors.

survey on account of availability for irrigation or dry farming, lines of reservations, and lands within boundaries of forest reservations. of The surveys and resurveys to be made by such competent surveyors as the Secretary of the Interior may select, at such compensation

not exceeding two hundred dollars per month as he may prescribe,

except that the Secretary of the Interior may appoint not to exceed

veSyusp.ervisors of sur two supervisors of surveys whose compensation shall not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars per month each, and except in the District

of Alaska, where a compensation not exceeding ten dollars per day may be allowed such surveyors and such per diem allowance, in lieu

of subsistence, not exceeding three dollars, as he may prescribe, and

actual necessary expenses for transportation, including necessary

sleeping-car fares, said per diem and traveling expenses to be allowed to
inCglmeirnkesr, eatlc,.c,oianls,paecntd all surveyors employed hereunder and to such clerks who are competent timber lands, etc. surveyors who may be detailed to make surveys, resurveys, or exam-

Resurveys, etc.

inations of surveys heretofore made and reported to be defective or fraudulent, and inspecting mineral deposits, coal fields, and timber districts, and for making, by such competent surveyors, fragmentary

surveys, examination of unaccepted contract surveys heretofore made and such other surveys or examinations as may be required for identification of lands for purposes of evidence in any suit or proceeding in behalf of the United States, the sum hereby appropriated to . be

tiMononcuormneenrst.s for cec- immediately available: Providedfurther, That the sumof not exceeding

ten per centum of the amount hereby appropriated may be expended
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, for the purchase of metal or other
equally durable monuments to be used for public-land survey corners wherever practicable. Additional force, The Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of ogfefniecreasl.of surveyors the Secretary of the Interior, is authorized to expend out of the appro-

priation for surveying the public lands for the fiscal year ending June

thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, not to exceed the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, for the employment of such additional

force in the offices of the United States surveyors general and for additional contingent expenses therein, stationery, and so forth, during the fiscal years of nineteen hundred and eleven and nineteen hundred and

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1417

twelve, as he may deem proper and necessary in the preparation of the

returns of direct surveys filed under said appropriation.

North

Completing field notes of surveys in Minnesota, North Dakota, and DaMkiontnae,sotaan,d South

South Dakota: To complete the drafting and field-note writing per- Dakota. taining to the surveys in the States of Minnesota and North Dakota noCtoems.pleting field

caused by the discontinuance of the offices of the surveyors general in

those States, and for similar work pertaining to returns of surveys in

South Dakota caused by the discontinuance of the regular force of employees in the surveyor general's office of that State, three thousand

five hundred dollars.

An additional one million acres of arid lands within the State of Nevada.
Additional grant of Nevada is hereby made available and subject to the terms of section desert lands under

four of an Act of Congress entitled " An Act making appropriations CaVroel. 2A8c,tp.. 422.

for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending

June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, and for other purposes, " approved August eighteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

four, and by amendments thereto, and the State of Nevada is allowed

under the provisions of said Acts said additional area, or so much

thereof as may be necessary for the purposes and under the provisions of said Acts.

For continuing the survey of public lands in Garfield, Iron, Kane, Special surveys. San Juan, and Washington Counties, in the State of Utah, fifty thousand dollars, of which amount the sum of not exceeding two

thousand dollars may be expended for the necessary office work in the surveyor general's office in connection with this survey.

For continuing the survey of public lands in Idaho, including the · cost of office work in the surveyor general's office not to exceed three

thousand five hundred dollars, fifty thousand dollars.

·

For the survey of the lands of the United States in the District of Alaska surveys.

Alaska, fifty thousand dollars.

Authority

is

hereby

given

for

the

expenditure

during

the

fiscal

years

Allowance work.

for

office

nineteen hundred and eleven and nineteen hundred and twelve of not

exceeding five thousand dollars from the appropriation of one hundred thousand dollars for surveying public lands in the District of Alaska, Ante, p. 741.

made in the sundry civil appropriation Act for the fiscal year nine-
teen hundred and eleven, for the execution of the necessary, office
work on the returns of surveys filed under the said appropriation. For making resurveys of public lands in the State of Nebraska, NReebsruarsvekyas. .
ordered to be resurveyed by the Secretary of the Interior, to be imme diately available, fifty thousand dollars.
For necessary expenses of survey, appraisal, and sale of abandoned reAsebravnadtioonnes.dmilitary military reservations transferred to the control of the Secretary of the Interior under the provisions of an Act of Congress approved Vol. 23, p. 103.
July fifth, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, and any law prior thereto, including a custodian of the ruin of Casa Grande, two thousand five hundred dollars.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

Geological Survey.

Office of the Director of the Geological Survey: For director, six etcS.alaries of Director, thousand dollars; chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; chief disbursing clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars; librarian, two thousand dollars; photographer, two thousand dollars ; two assistant photographers, one at nine hundred dollars and one at seven hundred and twenty dollars; one clerk of class two; three clerks of class one; one clerk, one thousand dollars ; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; four copyists, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; watchman, eight hundred and forty dollars; four watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; janitor, six hundred dol-

1418

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

lars ; four messengers, at four hundred and eighty dollars each; in all,

thirty-five thousand three hundred and forty dollars;

Scientific assistants, etc.

Scientific assistants of the Geological Survey : For two geologists,

at four thousand dollars each;

For one geologist, three thousand dollars ;

For one geologist, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; For two paleontologists, at two thousand dollars each;

For one chemist, three thousand dollars ;

For one geographer, two thousand seven hundred dollars ;

Expenses.

For one geographer, two thousand five hundred dollars; For two topographers, at two thousand dollars each ; in all, twentynine thousand nine hundred dollars ;
General expenses of the Geological Survey : For every expenditure

requisite for and incident to the authorized work of the Geological

Survey, including personal services in the District of Columbia and

in the field, to be expended under the regulations from time to time

prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, and under the following

heads, namely:

Skilled laborers, etc. For pay of skilled laborers and various temporary employees,

twenty thousand dollars ;

Topographic surveys.

For topographic surveys in various portions of the United States,

three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, to be immediately available ;

Geologic surveys.

For geologic surveys in the various portions of the United States,

three hundred thousand dollars, to be immediately available ;

Chemicaland physical researches.

For chemical and physical researches relating to the geology of the

United States, including researches with a view of determining geo-

Illustrations.

logical conditions favorable to the presence of deposits of potash salts, forty thousand dollars ;
For the preparation of the illustrations of the Geological Survey,

eighteen thousand two hundred and eighty dollars; Mineral resources. For the preparation of the report of the mineral resources of the

Watersupply.

United States, seventy-five thousand dollars ; For gauging the streams and determining the water supply of the
United States, and for the investigation of underground currents and

artesian wells, and the preparation of reports upon the best methods

Books, etc.

of utilizing the water resources, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ;
For the purchase of necessary books for the library, including direc-

tories and professional and scientific periodicals needed for statistical

purposes, two thousand dollars ;

Maps.

For engraving and printing the geologic maps, one hundred and ten

thousand dollars;

National forests sur- For continuation of the topographic surveys of the public lands veys.
that have been or may hereafter be designated as national forests,

seventy-five thousand dollars, to be immediately available ;

In all, for the United States Geological Survey, one million two

hundred and five thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

Bureau of Mines.

BUREAU OF MINES.

General expenses. For the general expenses of the Bureau of Mines, including the pay

Ante, p. 369.

of the director and the necessary assistants, clerks, and other employees in the office at Washington, District of Columbia, and in the field,

and for every other expense requisite for and incident to the general work of the Bureau of Mines in Washington, District of Columbia,

and in the field, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary

of the Interior, fifty-four thousand dollars ;

Investigating mine explosions, etc.

For the investigation as to the causes of mine explosions, methods

of mining, especially in relation to the safety of miners, the appliances

best adapted to prevent accidents, the possible improvement of con-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1419

ditions under which mining operations are carried on, the use of

explosives and electricity, the prevention of accidents and other

inquiries and technologic investigations pertinent to the mining industry, three hundred and ten thousand dollars ;
For the analyzing and testing of the coals, lignites, ores, and other Testing fuels. mineral fuel substances belonging to or for the use of the United States, one hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars;
For tests or investigations authorized by the Secretary of the paTretisetss. for outside Interior, other than those performed for the Government ofthe United States, a reasonable fee covering actual necessary expenses shall be Fees, etc. charged, according to a schedule submitted by the director and approved by the Secretary of the Interior, who shall prescribe the

rules and regulations under which such tests or investigations shall be made and under which such fees shall be charged and collected . All moneys received from such fees shall be paid into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts ;
For salaries of two mine inspectors, authorized by the Act approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, for the protection of the lives of miners in the Territories, five thousand dollars ; and said inspectors are hereby authorized to inspect coal and other mines in the District of Alaska, to which District the provisions of said Act, except so much as requires six months' residence in a Territory prior to appointment, are hereby extended and made applicable;
For per diem, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary

Mine inspectors. Vol. 26, p. 1104.
Perdiem, etc.

of the Interior may prescribe, in lieu of subsistence at a rate not exceeding three dollars per day each while absent from their homes on duty, except while in Alaska, when such allowance shall be at the

rate of five dollars per day, and for actual necessary traveling expenses

of said inspectors, including necessary sleeping-car fares, four thousand five hundred dollars ;

For technical and scientific books and publications, two thousand Books, etc. dollars ;

In all for the Bureau of Mines, four hundred and seventy-five thousand five hundred dollars.

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

Miscellaneous.

Disbarment pro Expenses of testimony in disbarment proceedings : For actual and ceedings. necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of the Interior to take Expenses. testimony, and prepare the same, in connection with disbarment
proceedings instituted against persons charged with improper practices before the Department of the Interior, its bureaus and offices, one thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
Supreme Court Reports: To pay the publishers of the decisions of poSrutps.reme Court Re-
the Supreme Court for two hundred and seventy copies of volumes, two hundred and twenty-four to two hundred and twenty-seven, inclusive, official edition, at two dollars per volume, and for fifteen copies of volume fifty-five of the Decisions of the Supreme Court, Lawyers' Cooperative Publishing Company, at five dollars per vol- Proviso. ume, two thousand two hundred and thirty-five dollars : Provided, Distribution to cir That the Secretary of the Interior shall hereafter, distribute the cuit courts of appeals. Supreme Court Reports to the libraries of the United States circuit
courts of appeals. Books to judicial
To pay for books authorized to be furnished under section two officers. hundred and twenty-nine of the "Act to codify, revise, and amend Ante, p. 1155.
the laws relating to the judiciary," sixty-four thousand dollars :
Provided, That not more than two dollars shall be paid per volume PPrriocveiss.o. for the Federal Reporter and not more than five dollars shall be paid
per volume for Digests of the Federal Reporter.

1420

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Alaska. Care of insane.
Education of tives.

Care and custody of the insane of Alaska : For the care and custody
of persons legally adjudged insane in the district of Alaska, including transportation and other expenses, fifty thousand dollars. na- Education in Alaska: To enable the Secretary of the Interior, in his
discretion and under his direction, to provide for the education and support of the Eskimos, Aleuts, Indians, and other natives of Alaska;

for erection, repair, and rental of school buildings ; for text-books and industrial apparatus; for pay and necessary traveling expenses

of general agent, assistant agent, superintendents, teachers, physi-

cians, and other employees, and all other necessary miscellaneous

expenses which are not included under the above special heads, two hundred thousand dollars; so much of which sum as may be neces-

Provisos. Limit ofpay.

sary for the purchase of supplies shall be immediately available : Provided, That no person employed hereunder as special agent or

inspector, or to perform any special or unusual duty in connection

herewith, shall receive as compensation exceeding two hundred dollars per month, in addition to actual traveling expenses and per

diem not exceeding four dollars in lieu of subsistence, when absent

Services, Washing-

ton, D. C.

on duty from his designated and actual post of duty : Provided, That .

of the sum hereby appropriated not exceeding seven thousand dollars

may be expended for personal services in the District of Columbia.

Supervision of expenditures.

All expenditures of money appropriated herein for school purposes

in Alaska shall be under the supervision and direction of the Com-

missioner of Education and in conformity with such conditions, rules,

and regulations as to conduct and methods of instruction and ex-

Reindeer.

penditure of money as may from time to time be recommended by him and approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
Reindeer for Alaska : For the support of reindeer stations in Alaska, and for the instruction of Alaskan natives in the care and manage-

Protection of game. ment of the reindeer, twelve thousand dollars.

Vol. 35, p. 102.

Protection of game in Alaska: For carrying out the provisions of

an Act approved May eleventh, nineteen hundred and eight, entitled

"An Act for the protection of game in Alaska, and for other pur-

poses," including salaries, travelling expenses of game wardens, and

all other necessary expenses, fifteen thousand dollars, to be expended
under the direction of the governor of Alaska.. traSfufpicp.ressing liquor For the suppression of the traffic in intoxicating liquors among the

Yellowstone Park. Care ofbuffaloes. Yosemite Park.

natives of Alaska, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, twelve thousand dollars.
Yellowstone National Park: For the administration and protection of the Yellowstone National Park, five thousand five hundred dollars.
For procuring feed for buffalo, salaries of buffalo keepers, three thousand dollars.
Yosemite National Park, California: For protection and improve-

ment of the Yosemite National Park and the construction and repair

of bridges, fences, and trails, and improvement of roads other than

Platt Park.

toll roads, fifty thousand dollars. Platt National Park: For. maintenance, bridging, roads, trails,

and sewerage, under direction of the Secretary of the Interior, ten
thousand dollars. Yosemite Park. Examination of San So much of the appropriation of twelve thousand dollars, made in

pFlrya.ncisco water sup- the sundry civil Act approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred Balance available. and ten, to enable the Secretary of the Interior to examine into the Aule, p. 745.
data required to be submitted by the city of San Francisco with
reference to a water supply for that city from Lake Eleanor and ad-

jacent watersheds partially within the Yosemite Park or from any

other available sources of water supply, and to collect such inde-

pendent data and information as may be necessary in the premises,

including all incidental expenses of the officers of the Engineer Corps of the United States Army detailed by the Secretary of War

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1421

as an advisory board to the Secretary of the Interior in connection

therewith, as remains unexpended on the thirtieth day of June, nineteen hundred and eleven, is hereby reappropriated and made available during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve to enable the Secretary of the Interior to continue such work during that period.

Sequoia National Park, California: For the protection and im- Sequoia Park. provement of the Sequoia National Park and the construction and

repair of bridges, fences, and trails, and improvement of roads other than toll roads, fifteen thousand five hundred and fifty dollars,

General Grant National Park, California: For protection and General Grant Park. improvement of the General Grant National Park, construction of
fences and trails, and repairing and extension of roads, two thousand dollars.

Crater Lake National Park, Oregon: For protection and improve- Crater Lake Park. ment of the Crater Lake National Park and repairing and extension of roads, three thousand dollars.

Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado : For protection and improvement of Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, including the lands within five miles of the boundaries of said reservation, which, under the Act of June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, are to be administered by the same service established for the custodianship of the park, seven thousand five hundred dollars.
Mount Rainier National Park, Washington: For protection and improvement of Mount Rainier National Park, construction of bridges, fences, and trails, and improvement of roads, five thousand four hundred dollars.

Mesa Verde Park, Vol.34, p. 616. Mount RainierPark.

Wind Cave National Park, South Dakota: For the improvement Wind Cave Park.

and protection of the Wind Cave National Park, two thousand five hundred dollars.
Glacier National Park, Montana: For administration and improvement of Glacier National Park, the construction of roads, bridges,

Glacier Park.

telephone lines, and the repair of roads, trails, bridges, to be expended

under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, sixty-nine

thousand two hundred dollars, to be immediately available. All

proceeds of leases and other revenues that may be derived from any

source connected with said park shall be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior in the administration and improve-

ment of the park, and the construction of roads, trails, bridges, and so forth, therein.

Hereafter the Secretary of the Interior shall submit in the annual reAcneinputaslasntdateexmpeenntdoif Book of Estimates, following the estimates for each of the national tures parks, a classified statement of the receipts and expenditures for the complete fiscal year next preceding the fiscal year for which estimates of appropriations are submitted.

GOVERNMENT HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE.

· Government Hospi tal for Insane.

For support, clothing, and treatment in the Government Hospital for the Insane of the insane from the Army and Navy, Marine Corps, Revenue-Cutter Service, inmates of the National Home for Disabled
VolunteerSoldiers, persons charged with or convicted of crimes against the United States who are insane, all persons who have become insane since their entry into the military and naval service of the United
States who have been admitted to the hospital and who are indigent, including purchase, maintenance, and driving of necessary horses and vehicles and of horses and vehicles for official use of the superintendent, three hundred and thirty-four thousand four hundred dollars ; and not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars of this sum may be expended in defraying the expense of the removal of patients to their friends; not exceeding one thousand dollars may be expended

Maintenance.

1422

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

in the purchase of such books, periodicals, and papers as may be required for the purposes of the hospital and for the medical library, and not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the apprehension and return to the

hospital of escaped patients.

Salary of superintendent.

The salary of the superintendent of the hospital is hereby fixed at

five thousand dollars per annum.

Buildings and grounds.

For the buildings and grounds of the Government Hospital for the

Insane, as follows:

For general repairs and improvements, forty thousand dollars.

For roadways, grading, and walks, five thousand dollars.

Power plant, etc., from accrued pension For completing the power, heating, and lighting plant, remodeling

money.

the electric layout, and substituting electrically driven for steam-

driven machinery, and for other purposes incident thereto, sixty

thousand dollars, which sum shall be paid from money in the Treas

ury which has accrued to the hospital from pensions under the Act

of February twentieth, nineteen hundred and five, and be imme-

diately available.

Columbia Institution for Deaf and Dumb.

COLUMBIA INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB.

Support, etc.

For support of the institution, including salaries and incidental
expenses, for books and illustrative apparatus, and for general repairs and improvements, sixty-six thousand five hundred dollars.

For repairs to the buildings of the institution, including plumbing and steam fitting, and for repairs to pavements within the grounds, five thousand dollars.

For the building of a new dairy barn to accommodate thirty cows ;

for the construction of a milk house and silo; for the repair of present

barns and stable; and for adding to and altering the greenhouse,

twelve thousand five hundred dollars.

Designated Colum-

bia Institution for the From and after the passage of this Act the Columbia Institution

Deaf.

for the Deaf and Dumb shall be known and designated as the Colum-

bia Institution for the Deaf.

Howard University.

HOWARD UNIVERSITY.

Maintenance, etc.

For maintenance of the Howard University, to be used in payment
of part of the salaries of the officers, professors, teachers, and other regular employees of the university, the balance of which shall be

paid from donations and other sources, of which sum not less than one thousand five hundred dollars shall be used for normal instruc-
tion, fifty-seven thousand four hundred dollars;

For tools, materials, fuel, wages of instructors, and other necessary expenses of the department of manual arts, to be immediately available, thirteen thousand five hundred dollars ;

For books, shelving, furniture, and fixtures, for the libraries, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

For improvement of grounds and repairs of buildings, five thousand

dollars, to be immediately available;

Medical department.

Medical department : To meet in part cost of needed equipment,

laboratory supplies, and apparatus, including necessary salaries, ten

thousand dollars ;

For material and apparatus for chemical, physical, and natural-

history studies, and use in laboratories, including cases and shelving, two thousand dollars ;
For fuel and light, in part payment for fuel and light, Freedman's Hospital and Howard University, including necessary labor to care for and operate the same, three thousand five hundred dollars.
In all, ninety-two thousand nine hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1423

For the construction of a suitable building for coal storage and conveyor runways at the central heating plant of the Freedman's
Hospital and Howard University, to be immediately available, seven thousand five hundred dollars ;
For additional employees in the operation of the lighting and heating plant, two thousand and forty dollars;
For necessary radiators, fixtures, and so forth, to connect manual training school at Howard University with central power and heating system, to be immediately available, one thousand eight hundred dollars;
For providing the necessary conduits, cables, wires, and labor in
connecting the central heating, electric light, and power plant from Freedman's Hospital to the various buildings on the Howard University grounds, seven thousand dollars.
In all, eighteen thousand three hundred and forty dollars.

Heating plant, etc.

FREEDMAN'S HOSPITAL.

Freedman's Hospital.

For salaries and compensation of the surgeon in chief, not to exceed three thousand dollars, and for all other professional and other services that may be required and expressly approved by the Secretary of the Interior; in all, thirty thousand dollars. A detailed statement of the expenditure of this sum shall be submitted to Congress ;
For subsistence, fuel and light, clothing, bedding, forage, medicine, medical and surgical supplies, surgical instruments, electric lights, repairs, furniture, and other absolutely necessary expenses, twentyone thousand dollars ;
For rent of quarters for hospital nurses and for heating and lighting the same, three thousand dollars;
For elevator for the additional wing to Freedman's Hospital Building authorized by sundry civil Act of March fourth, nineteen hundred and nine, six thousand dollars ;
For grading and repair of roadways, two thousand dollars; For the construction of a suitable building as home for nurses employed in the hospital, forty thousand six hundred and sixty dollars; In all, one hundred and two thousand six hundred and sixty dollars.

Salaries, etc. EVloelv. a3t5o, rp,.e9t9c.2.

UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Department of Justice.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Courthouse, Washington, District of Columbia: For construction

Courthouse, D. C. Repairs.

work at the courthouse and repairs thereof, as per estimate of the

Superintendent of the Capitol, ten thousand dollars.

Penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kansas: For continuing construction LPeeanivteennwtoiratryh., Kans of the new United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, one

hundred thousand dollars, to be available immediately and to remain

available until expended, all of which sum shall be so expended as to

give the maximum amount of employment to the inmates of said

penitentiary.

Atlanta.

Penitentiary, Atlanta, Georgia : For continuing the construction of Penitentiary.

the United States Penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia, and the wall around same, seventy-five thousand dollars, to be available imme-

diately and to remain available until expended, all of which sum shall

be so expended as to give the maximum amount of employment to the inmates of said penitentiary.
NationalTraining School forBoys: For the construction of necessary scNhaotoilonfaolr BoTyrsa.ining

. buildings for the care of live stock, seven thousand five hundred dollars ;

1424

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

For a cottage for the assistant superintendent, to be constructed by

Central school the school, three thousand dollars ;

building.

Toward the construction of a central school building to cost not

exceeding forty-five thousand dollars, including gymnasium and

baths, ten thousand dollars ;

In all, twenty thousand five hundred dollars.

Miscellaneous.

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Conduct of customs

cases.

Conduct of customs cases : For Assistant Attorney General, eight

GeAnsesriaslta, nDtepAutttyo,rnaeiy- thousand dollars; Deputy Assistant Attorney General, seven thou-

torneys, etc.

sand five hundred dollars ; two assistant attorneys, at five thousand

dollars each; one assistant attorney, four thousand five hundred

dollars ; one assistant attorney, three thousand dollars ; one assistant

attorney, two thousand five hundred dollars ; special attorneys and

Anle, p. 108.

counselors at law in the conduct of customs cases, to be employed and their compensation fixed by the Attorney General, as authorized by section thirty of the Act of August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine,

thirty-five thousand dollars ; necessary clerical assistance and other

employees at the seat ofgovernment and elsewhere, to be employed and their compensation fixed by the Attorney General; supplies, printing,

traveling, and other miscellaneous and incidental expenses to be
expended under the direction of the Attorney General, twenty-four
thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, ninety-five thousand dollars. Witnesses, Board of For traveling expenses, fees, and mileage allowance of witnesses General Appraisers.
before the Board of United States General Appraisers, five thousand five hundred dollars, which sum shall be paid from the permanent

annual appropriations for expenses of collecting the revenue from

customs.

Defending suits in claims.

Defending suits in claims against the United States: For defraying

the necessary expenses incurred in the examination of witnesses and

procuring of evidence in the matter of claims against the United

States and such other expenditures as may be necessary in defending

suits in the Court of Claims, including defense for the United States in the matter of French spoliation claims, not exceeding five hundred

Prosecution crimes.

dollars of which may be expended for law books, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, twenty thousand dollars. of Detection and prosecution of crimes : For the detection and prose-
cution of crimes against the United States ; the investigation of the official acts, records, and accounts of marshals, attorneys, clerks, and referees of the United States courts and the Territorial courts, and United States commissioners, for which purpose all the official papers,

records, and dockets of said officers, without exception, shall be

examined by the agents of the Attorney General at any time ; for the

protection of the person of the President of the United States ; for

Inspection of pris ons etc.

such other investigations.regarding official matters under the control of the Department of Justice as may be directed by the Attorney General ; to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Inspection of prisons and prisoners : For the inspection of United States prisons and prisoners, and for the collection, classification, and preservation of criminal identification records, and their exchange

with the officials of State and other institutions, to be expended under

the direction of the Attorney General, ten thousand dollars.

Investigating frauds, ete

Investigation and prosecution of frauds : To defray the expenses

of the investigation and prosecution of frauds upon the revenues and

other frauds upon the United States, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Defense in Indian depredation claims.

Defense in Indian depredation claims : For salaries and expenses in

defense of the Indian depredation claims, including not exceeding

six thousand dollars for salaries of necessary employees in Washington,

District of Columbia, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, twenty-two thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1425

For the payment of any and all expenses incurred or to be incurred ,InMdeixainsc.an Kickapoo in or about the prosecutions for crimes committed in the United States Prosecutions for
fraudulent convey-
or the Republic of Mexico in connection with the false making or ances, etc.

unlawful procurement of conveyances purporting to affect title to lands in Oklahoma allotted to Kickapoo Indians, twenty thousand dollars, at the discretion of the Attorney General, the provision of section thirty-six hundred and forty-eight of the Revised Statutes to

R.S., sec. 3648, p.718.

the contrary, notwithstanding.

Traveling and miscellaneous expenses : For traveling and other peTnrsaevs.eling, etc., exmiscellaneous and emergency expenses, authorized and approved by

the Attorney General, to be expended at his discretion, the provisions R. S.,sec.3618, p. 718.

of the first paragraph of section thirty-six hundred and forty-eight,

Revised Statutes, to the contrary notwithstanding, ten thousand

dollars.

The

disbursing

clerk

of

the

Department

of

Justice

is

authorized

to

Advances by dis bursingclerkallowed.

take credit in his accounts for advances made by him from the fore-

going appropriation by order of the Attorney General. Incidental expenses, District of Alaska: For furniture, fuel, books;
and other incidental expenses, for the offices of the marshals and attorneys, six thousand dollars.
Traveling expenses, District of Alaska: For the actual and necessary expenses of the judges and clerks in the District of Alaska when

Alaska. Incidental expenses.
Traveling expenses.

traveling in the discharge of their official duties, six thousand dollars. Enforcement of antitrust laws : For the enforcement of antitrust laEwnsf, oertcc.ing antitrust

laws, including not exceeding ten thousand dollars for salaries of

necessary employees at the seat of government, two hundred thou-

sand dollars.

Conveyances of al-

Suits to set aside conveyances of allotted lands, Five Civilized lotted lands. Expenses of suitsto
Tribes: For the payment of necessary expenses incident to any suits set aside. -

brought at the request of the Secretary of the Interior in the eastern

judicial district of Oklahoma, to be expended under the direction of Proviso. the Attorney General, fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That the sum Oklahoma western

of ten thousand dollars of the above amount, or so much thereof as judicial district.

may be necessary, may be expended in the prosecution of cases in the

western judicial district of Oklahoma, and not to exceed ten thousand

dollars of said sum shall be available for the expenses of the United CoAuprpte.als to Supreme

States on appeals to the Supreme Court of the United States. Enforcement of Acts to regulate commerce : For expenses of repre- Enforcementof acts to regulatecommerce.
senting the Government in all matters arising under the Act entitled VEoxlp.e2n4s,eps. 379. "An Act to regulate commerce," approved February fourth, eighteen Ante, p. 539.
hundred and eighty-seven, as amended, including traveling expenses

2 and rentals, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney Gen-

eral, including salaries of employees at Washington, twenty-five

thousand dollars.

Seminoleallotments

Suits affecting title to Seminole allotted lands in Oklahoma: in Oklahoma. For the payment of necessary expense incident to any suits brought , feEctxipnegntsietlseosf. suitsaf-

including the salary of an attorney specially employed to set aside

illegal conveyances of Seminole allotments, to protect the possession of Seminole allottees in their allotted lands, or in the prosecution

of any criminal proceedings based on frauds perpetrated upon

Seminole allottees with respect to their allotted lands, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, ten thousand dollars.

JUDICIAL .

Judicial.

UNITED STATES COURTS.

United States courts.

For defraying the expenses of the Supreme Court ; of the circuit Expenses. and district courts of the United States, including the district court in the Territory of Hawaii ; of the supreme court and court of appeals

1426

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 285. 1911 .

of the District of Columbia; of the district court of Alaska; of the

circuit courts of appeals ; of suits and preparations for or in defense of suits in which the United States is interested; of the prosecution

of offenses committed against the United States ; and in the enforcement of the laws of the United States, specifically the expenses stated

under the following appropriations , namely:

Marshals' salaries,

etc.

For payment of salaries, fees, and expenses of United States

marshals and their deputies, one million four hundred thousand

Advances.

dollars, to include payment for services rendered in behalf of the United States or otherwise. Advances to United States marshals,

in accordance with existing law, may be made from the proper appro-

Restriction.

priations, as herein provided, immediately upon the passage of this Act ; but no disbursement shall be made prior to July first, nineteen

hundred and eleven, by said disbursing officers from the funds thus

advanced, and no disbursements shall be made therefrom to liquidate

Increased salariesto expTeonspeasyftorhethaemfoisucnatl syeaadrdneidnettoeetnhehusnaldarreiedsaonfdtehleevCehnieofr Jpursitoircyeeaarnsd.

justices.

Ante, p. 1152.

the associate justices of the Supreme Court by the Act to codify,

revise, and amend the laws relating to the judiciary, passed at the

present session of Congress, nine thousand dollars.

District attorneys. For salaries of United States district attorneys and expenses of Salaries, etc.

United States district attorneys and their regular assistants, five

Provisos. Service during

va-

hundred

and

fifty

thousand

dollars :

Provided,

That

this

appropria-

cancies.

tion shall be available for the payment of the salaries of regularly

appointed clerks to United States district attorneys for services ren-

New Jersey.

dered during vacancy in the office of the United States district attorney: Provided further, That beginning July first, nineteen hun-

dred and eleven, the salary of the Uni.ed States attorney for the

Nevada.

district of New Jersey shall be five thousand dollars per annum: And provided further, That the annual salary of the United States

attorney for the district of Nevada shall be, after the beginning of the

fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, four thousand dollars.

District ofColumbia. Fees, district attor-

For fees of United States district attorney for the District of Colum-

ney.

bia, twenty-eight thousand nine hundred and forty dollars.

Expenses limited. The United States district attorney for the District of Columbia

shall hereafter pay to his deputies or assistants not exceeding in all

twelve thousand dollars per annum ; also his clerical and messenger hire, not exceeding eight thousand nine hundred and forty dollars ;

Proviso. Restriction.

office rent, fuel, stationery, printing, and other incidental expenses, not exceeding two thousand dollars, out of the fees of his office :
Provided, That no expenses other than those above specified shall be allowed .

Regularassistants. For payment of regular assistants to United States district attor-

neys, who are appointed by the Attorney General, at a fixed annual

compensation, three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Assistants in special cases.

For payment of assistants to the Attorney General and to United

States district attorneys employed by the Attorney General to aid in Foreign counsel. special cases, two hundred thousand dollars. This appropriation

shall be available also for the payment of foreign counsel employed by

the Attorney General in special cases, and such counsel shall not be

Oath.

required to take oath of office in accordance with section three hun-

R. S., sec. 366, p. 62. dred and sixty-six, Revised Statutes of the United States.

Clerks'fees.

For fees of clerks. three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

United States com- For fees of United States coinmissioners and justices of the peace miRs.sSi.on,seercs.,1e0t1c4.,,pfe. e18s9.. acting under section one thousand and fourteen, Revised Statutes of

the United States, one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars.

Jurors' fees.

For fees ofjurors, one million one hundred and twenty-five thousand

dollars.

Witness fees.

Fees of witnesses, United States courts : For fees of witnesses and

R. S., sec. 850, p. 160.

for payment of the actual expenses of witnesses, as provided by section

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1427

eight hundred and fifty, Revised Statutes of the United States, to be available if necessary for the like fees in the District of Columbia, one million dollars.
For rent of rooms for the United States courts and judicial officers, seventy thousand dollars.
For pay of bailiffs and criers, not exceeding three bailiffs and one crier in each court, except in the southern district of New York and
the northern district of Illinois : Provided, That all persons employed under section seven hundred and fifteen of the Revised Statutes shall

Rentof courtrooms.
Bailiffs, etc.
Provisos. Actual attendance. R. S.,sec. 715, p. 136.

be deemed to be in actual attendance when they attend upon the
order of the courts: Provided further, That no such person shall be Traveling, etc., exemployed during vacation; of reasonable expenses actually incurred penses ofjudges.
for travel and maintenance of circuit and district judges of the United States and the judges of the district courts of the United States in Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico, consequent upon their attending court or transacting other official business at any place other than their official place of residence, not to exceed ten dollars per day, said expenses to be paid by the marshal of the district in which said court

is held or official business transacted upon the judge's written certif- Jury expenses. icate ; of meals and lodgings for jurors in United States cases, and of bailiffs in attendance upon the same, when ordered by the court ; and of compensation for jury commissioners, five dollars per day, not Júry commissioners. exceeding three days for any one term of court, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
For payment of such miscellaneous expenses as may be authorized peMnissecse.llaneous exby the Attorney General, for the United States courts and their offi- Proviso. cers, four hundred and fifty thousand dollars: Provided, That in so Alaska. far as it may be deemed necessary by the Attorney General, this
appropriation shall be available for such expenses in the District of Alaska.

To enable the Joint Committee on the Library to procure for the F Fult ler.ofChiefJustice court room of the Supreme Court of the United States a marble bust, with pedestal, of the late Chief Justice Melville Weston Fuller, one thousand five hundred dollars.
To enable the Joint Committee on the Library to procure for the JuPsotircterFauliltero.f Chief robing room of the Supreme Court of the United States an oil portrait of the late Chief Justice Melville Weston Fuller, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For supplies, including exchange of typewriting and adding ma- Supplies. chines for the United States courts and judicial officers, to be expended under the direction of the Attorney General, thirty-five thousand dollars.
For support of United States prisoners, including necessary clothing erssu. pport of prison-
and medical aid, and transportation to place of conviction or place of bona fide residence in the United States, and including support of

prisoners becoming insane during imprisonment, as well before as after conviction, and continuing insane after expiration of sentence, who have no friends to whom they can be sent ; for expenses of ship-
ping remains of deceased prisoners to their homes in the United States; for the expense of care and medical treatment of guards employed by the United States who may be injured by prisoners while saidguards are endeavoring to prevent escapes or suppressing mutiny ; for expenses incurred in identifying and pursuing escaped prisoners, and for rewards for their recapture, and not exceeding ten thousand dollars for repairs, betterments, and improvements of United States jails, including sidewalks, five hundred and ten thousand dollars.
For the support of the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, as follows:
For subsistence, including supplies for prisoners, warden, deputy warden, and physician, tobacco for prisoners, kitchen and dining

LPeenaivteennwtoiarrtyh., Kans. Subsistence. P

1428 Clothing, etc. Miscellaneons.
Hospital. Salaries.
Atlanta, Ga., Penitentiary.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS . III. CH. 285. 1911.
room furniture and utensils, and for farm and garden seeds and implements, and for purchase of ice if necessary, forty thousand dollars;
For clothing, transportation, and traveling expenses, including such clothing as can be made at the penitentiary; for the usual gratuities as provided by law to prisoners at release, including transportation to place of conviction or place of bona fide residence in the United States; for expenses of shipping remains of deceased prisoners to their homes in the United States ; for expenses of peniten-
tiary officials while traveling on duty ; for expenses incurred in identifying and pursuing escaped prisoners, and for rewards for their recapture, thirty-two thousand dollars ;
For miscellaneous expenditures in the discretion of the Attorney General, for fuel, forage, hay, light, water, stationery, purchase of fuel for generating steam, heating apparatus, burning bricks and lime ; forage for issue to public animals, and hay and straw for bedding; blank books, blank forms, typewriting supplies, pencils and memorandum books for guards, books for use in chapel, paper, envelopes, and postage stamps for issue to prisoners ; for labor and materials for repairing steam-heating plant, electric plant and water circulation, and drainage; for labor and materials for construction and repair of. buildings for general supplies, machinery, and tools for use on farm and in shops, brickyard, quarry, limekiln, laundry, bathrooms, printing office, photograph gallery, stables, policing buildings and grounds; for the purchase of cows, horses, mules, wagons, harness, veterinary supplies, lubricating oils, office furniture, stoves, blankets, bedding, iron bunks, paints and oils, library books, newspapers and periodicals, and electrical supplies; for payment of water supply, telegrams, telephone service, notarial and veterinary services; for advertising in newspapers; for fees to consulting physicians called to determine mental condition of supposed insane prisoners, and for other services in cases of emergency; for pay of extra guards or employees when deemed necessary by the Attorney General, and for expense of care and medical treatment of guards who may be injured by prisoners while said guards are endeavoring to prevent escapes or suppressing mutiny, forty thousand dollars ;
For hospital supplies, including purchase of medicines, medical and surgical supplies, and all other articles for the care and treatment of sick prisoners ; and for expenses of interment of deceased prisoners, two thousand five hundred dollars ;
For salaries, including pay of officials and employees as follows : Warden, four thousand dollars ; deputy warden, two thousand dollars ; chaplain, one thousand five hundred dollars ; chaplain, six hundred dollars; physician, one thousand six hundred dollars; chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; bookkeeper and record clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars; stenographer, nine hundred dollars ; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; head cook, one thousand dollars ; steward and storekeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars ; superintendent of farm and transportation, nine hundred dollars ; three captains of watch, at one thousand dollars each; guards, at seventy dollars per month each, fifty-two thousand and eighty dollars ; two teamsters, at six hundred dollars each ; engineer and electrician, one thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant engineer and electrician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; in all, seventynine thousand two hundred and eighty dollars ;
For foremen, shoemaker, harness maker, carpenter, laundryman, blacksmith, tailor, and tinner, when necessary, four thousand eight hundred dollars;
In all, for penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, one hundred and ninety-eight thousand five hundred and eighty dollars.
For support of the United States Penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia, as follows :

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III . C. 285. 1911 .

1429,

For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this Subsistence. head for the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas,

thirty thousand dollars ; For clothing and transportation, including the same objects speci- . Clothing, etc.
fied under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, twenty-five thousand dollars;
For miscellaneous expenditures, in the discretion of the Attorney Miscellaneous. General, including the same objects specified under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, twenty-four thousand dollars ; ·

For hospital supplies, including the same objects specified under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, two thousand dollars.
For salaries, including pay of officials and employees, as follows:
Warden, four thousand dollars ; deputy warden, two thousand dollars; chaplain, one thousand five hundred dollars; chaplain, one thousand two hundred dollars; chief clerk, one thousand eight hundred dollars; physician, one thousand six hundred dollars ; bookkeeper and record clerk, one thousand two hundred dollars ; stenographer, nine hundred dollars; six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; telephone operator,
four hundred and eighty dollars; engineer and electrician, one thou· sand five hundred dollars; assistant engineer and electrician, one
thousand two hundred dollars ; three captains of watch, at one thousand dollars each; steward and storekeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars; superintendent of farm and transportation, nine hundred dollars ; two teamsters, at six hundred dollars each ; head cook, one thousand dollars ; guards, at seventy dollars per month each, forty-three thousand dollars; in all, seventy-three thousand and eighty dollars ;

Hospital. Salaries.

For foremen, tailor, blacksmith, shoemaker, laundryman, and

carpenter, when necessary, four thousand dollars;

In all, for penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia, one hundred and fifty-
eight thousand and eighty dollars. For support of the United States Penitentiary, McNeil Island, WaMschN. ,ePienliteInstliaarny.d,

Washington, as follows: For subsistence, including the same objects specified under this head for the United States Penitentiary, at Leavenworth, Kansas, and for supplies for guards, ten thousand dollars ;

Subsistence.

· For clothing and transportation, including the same objects speci- Clothing, etc. fied under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leaven-

worth, Kansas, six thousand dollars ;

For miscellaneous expenditures, including the same objects speci- Miscellaneous.fied under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leaven-

worth, Kansas, and for such other purposes as may be directly ordered and approved by the Attorney General, fifteen thousand dollars ;
For hospital supplies, including the same objects specified under this head for the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, one thousand dollars ;
For salaries, including pay of officials and employees, as follows: For warden, two thousand dollars; deputy warden, one thousand two hundred dollars ; physician, one thousand two hundred dollars ; steward and cook, one thousand dollars ; guards, at seventy dollars per month each, ten thousand five hundred dollars ; in all, fifteen thousand nine hundred dollars.

Hospital. Salaries.

In all, for penitentiary at McNeil Island, Washington, forty-seven thousand nine hundred dollars.
For support of the National Training School for Boys, District of ScNhaotoilofnoarlBoTyrsa, iDn.iCn.g Columbia: For superintendent, two thousand five hundred dollars ; Salaries. assistant superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; teachers and assistant teachers, nine thousand one hundred and twenty dollars ;

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-02

1430

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Maintenance. Repairs.

storekeeper and steward, six hundred dollars ; matron of sohool, six hundred dollars ; six matrons of families, at two hundred and forty dollars each; foremen of and skilled helpers in industries, three thousand eight hundred dollars ; farmer, six hundred dollars ; assistant farmer, four hundred and twenty dollars ; teamster, three hundred and sixty dollars ; florist, engineer, and shoemaker, at five hundred and forty dollars each ; baker, and tailor, at six hundred dollars each; cook, four hundred and eighty dollars ; assistant engineer, four hundred and twenty dollars; laundress, three hundred and sixty dollars; dining-room attendant, boys, three hundred dollars ; dining-room attendant, officers, two hundred and forty dollars ; housemaid, two hundred and sixteen dollars ; seamstress, two hundred and forty dollars ; assistant cook, three hundred dollars ; nurse, six hundred dollars; watchmen, not to exceed eight in number, two thousand eight hundred and eighty dollars ; office clerk, seven hundred and twenty dollars; assistant office clerk, four hundred and eighty dollars ; parole officer, nine hundred dollars ; secretary and treasurer to board of trustees, six hundred dollars ; in all, thirty-two thousand four hundred and ninety-six dollars ;
For support of inmates, including groceries, flour, feed, meats, dry goods, leather, shoes, gas, fuel, hardware, furniture, tableware, farm implements, seeds, harness and repairs to same, fertilizers, books
and periodicals, printing, and entertainments, stationery, plumbing, painting, glazing, medicines and medical attendance, stock, vehicles, fencing, repairs to buildings, and other necessary items, including compensation, not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars, for additional labor or services, for identifying and pursuing escaped inmates, and for rewards for their recapture, and for transportation and other necessary expenses incident to securing suitable homes for discharged boys, not exceeding five hundred dollars, ten thousand five hundred dollars;
For extraordinary repairs to buildings, fences, and roadways, and for purchase of equipment, two thousand dollars ;
In all, for National Training School for Boys, forty-four thousand nine hundred and ninety-six dollars.

meDrecpeaarntmdeLnatboofrC.om- UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR.
coLnisg, hftohgoussiegnsa,lsb, eetac-. LIGHTHOUSES, BEACONS, FOG SIGNALS, LIGHT VESSELS, AND OTHER WORKS UNDER THE LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE.

Monhegan Island, Me., light station.

Monhegan Island, Maine, Light Station: For improving the light

and fog signal at Monhegan Island, Maine, ten thousand dollars.

Stonington River, Conn.

Stonington,, Connecticut, Light Station : For repair of sea wall

Repairs.

about Stonington Point, Connecticut, five hundred dollars.

Bogue Sound, N. C. Range light.

For range light, in Bogue Sound, North Carolina, two thousand

five hundred dollars.

StatenIsland depot, N. Y.

Staten Island Lighthouse Depot, New York: For constructing a

Powerplant.

power house and foundry, and for completing the equipment, wiring,

and so forth, of the power plant at the general lighthouse depot,

Staten Island, New York, thirty thousand dollars. Brandywine Shoal. Light, etc., station. Brandywine Shoal Light Station, Delaware: For rebuilding and

improving the present light and fog-signal station at Brandywine

Shoal, Delaware Bay, Delaware, on the present or an adjacent site,

seventy-five thousand dollars.

Hudson River. Light at Rondout

For establishing a light and fog-signal station at or near the mouth

Creek, N. Y.

of Rondout Creek, Hudson River, New York, forty thousand dollars.

Lincoln Rock, Alaska.

Lincoln Rock Light Station, Alaska: For rebuilding and improving

"Light, etc., station. the present light and fog signal at Lincoln Rock, Alaska, on the present

or an adjacent site, twenty-five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1431

Buffalo Breakwater, North End Light Station, New York: For Burfefaaklwoa, NteYr . light rebuilding the Buffalo Breakwater, North End Light Station, New station. York, on the present or an adjacent site, sixty thousand dollars.
Superior Entry, Wisconsin: For the completion of the lighting of SLuipgehrtionrgEntry Wis. the breakwaters and piers at Superior Entry, Wisconsin, twenty-five ters, etc. thousand dollars.

Eagle Point Range Lights, New Jersey: For the establishment of DEealgalweaProeinRtivrear.nge proper lights to light a difficult turn at the junction of the two Horse- lights.
shoe ranges on the Delaware River below Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, two thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars.
San Pedro Breakwater Light Station, California: For establishing BSraenaPkewdartoe,rCalli.ght,

a light and fog-signal station on the San Pedro Breakwater, Cali- etc. , station. fornia, thirty-six thousand dollars.

For a light vessel for service at or near a point between Point Abino LLiagkhetEvreises.el. and Sturgeon Point, in Lake Erie, seventy-five thousand dollars.

Edgemoor Lighthouse Depot, Delaware: For the reconstruction of DeEld. gemoor depot,

the wharves and sea wall, for dredging the basin, and for other Improvements.

improvements at the Edgemoor Lighthouse Depot, Delaware, thirty

thousand dollars.

Delaware Bay.

Miah Maul Shoal Light Station, Delaware Bay: For completing Miah Maul Shoal

the construction of the light and fog-signal station at Miah Maul station.

Shoal, Delaware Bay, thirty thousand dollars.

Fort McHenry Channel, Maryland : For range lights, one hundred neFlo,rMtdMc. HenryChan-

and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Range lights.

For suitable lights and signals in Cape Fear River, below Wilming- Cape Fear River,

ton, North Carolina, twenty-one thousand dollars.

Additional lights, etc.

For establishing an adequate system of lighting in the channels Norfolk, Va.

leading to Norfolk Harbor, Virginia, thirty-five thousand dollars.

Lighting channels to harbor.

Sand Island Light Station, Alabama: For protecting the site at Band Island, Ala.

Sand Island Light Station, Alabama, fifteen thousand dollars.

Light station.

Detroit River lights, Michigan: For establishing aids to navigation DLeitvrionigtsRtiovneer,CMhiacnh-. along the Livingstone Channel, Detroit River, Michigan, including nel lights and buoys. authority to locate and construct lights and to place buoys necessary
to properly mark this channel, two hundred and ten thousand dollars. StatenIsland depot.
Staten Island lighthouse depot, New York: For repairs and exten- Repairs to wharves.
sion of wharves at the general lighthouse depot, Staten Island, New York, forty thousand dollars.
Hunts Point, N. Y. Hunts Point Light Station, New York: For the establishment of a Light station.
light and fog signal to properly mark Hunts Point between Hell
Gate and Whitestone Point, East River, New York, five thousand dollars.

Battery Point Light Station, Washington: For completing the establishment of the light and fog-signal station at Battery Point, Washington, thirty-three thousand dollars.
Aids to navigation, Alaska: For establishing additional aids to navigation in Alaskan waters, sixty thousand dollars.

BLaitgthetr, yePtco.i,nst,aWtaiosnh. .
Alaska. Aidsto navigation.

LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE .

Lighthouse service.

General expenses, Lighthouse Service: For supplies, repairs, main- Generpal. expenses. tenance, and incidental expenses of lighthouses and other lights, beacons, buoyage, fog signals, lighting of rivers heretofore authorized

to be lighted, light vessels, other aids to navigation, and lighthouse tenders, including the establishment, repair, and improvement of

beacons and day marks and purchase of land for same, the establish-

ment of post lights, buoys, submarine signals, and fog signals, the establishment of oil or carbide houses, not to exceed ten thousand
dollars: Provided, That no. oil house erected hereunder shall exceed five hundred and fifty dollars in cost ; the construction of necessary

Proviso. Limit for oll houses.

outbuildings at a cost not exceeding two hundred dollars at any one

1432 .

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Rations, etc.

light station in any fiscal year, the improvements of grounds and buildings connected with light stations and depots, wages of laborers attending post lights, pay of temporary employees while engaged on works
of general repair and maintenance, rations and provisions for keepers of lighthouses, officers and crews of light vessels and tenders, and

officials of the Lighthouse Service on duty on board of such tenders

or vessels, reimbursement under rules prescribed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, of keepers of light stations and masters of light

vessels and of lighthouse tenders for rations and provisions and cloth-

ing furnished shipwrecked persons who may be temporarily provided

for by them, not exceeding in all five thousand dollars in any fiscal

year, fuel and rent of quarters where necessary for keepers of lightetcP.urchase of sites , houses, the purchase of land sites for fog signals, the rent of necessary
ground for all such lights and beacons as are for temporary use or to mark changeable channels and which in consequence can not be

Contingent expenses. Iade permanent, the rent of offices, depots, and wharves, traveling expenses and mileage, library books for light stations and vessels, and

technical books and periodicals not exceeding one thousand dollars, and for all other contingent expenses of district offices and depots, and for contingent expenses of the office of the Bureau of Lighthouses in

Keepers' salaries.

Washington, two million five hundred and sixty-nine thousand four hundred dollars.
Salaries of keepers of lighthouses : For salaries of not exceeding one

Light vessels.

thousand seven hundred and fifty lighthouse and fog-signal keepers and laborers attending other lights exclusive of post lights, nine hundred and thirty thousand dollars.
Salaries, lighthouse vessels : For salaries and wages of officers and

Inspectors, etc.

crews of light vessels and lighthouse tenders, including temporary employment when necessary, one million seven thousand four hundred and twenty dollars.
Salaries, Lighthouse Service : For salaries of seventeen lighthouse inspectors and of clerks and other authorized permanent employees in the district offices and depots of the Lighthouse Service, exclusive

of those regularly employed in the office of the Bureau of Light-

houses, Washington, District of Columbia, four hundred and sixtyfive thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars.

Coast and Geodetic Survey.

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Expenses.

For every expenditure requisite for and incident to the work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and including compensation, not other-

wise appropriated for, of persons employed in the field work, and commutation to officers of the field force while on field duty, at a

Proviso. Advances.

rate not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per day each, to be expended in accordance with the regulations relating to the Coast and Geodetic Survey from time to time prescribed by the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor, and under the following heads : Provided, That advances of money under this appropriation may be made to the Coast and Geodetic Survey and by authority of the superintend-

ent thereof to chiefs of parties, who shall give bond under such rules and regulations and in such sum as the Secretary of Commerce and Labor may direct, and accounts arising under such advances shall

be rendered through and by the Coast and Geodetic Survey to the

Treasury Department as under advances heretofore made to chiefs

of parties. Field expenses. Atlantic and Gulf Field expenses : For surveys and necessary resurveys of the Atlantic

coasts. Proviso.

and Gulf coasts of the United States, including the coasts of outlying

Island limitations. islands under the jurisdiction of the United States : Provided, That

not more than twenty-five thousand dollars of this amount shall be

expended on the coasts of said outlying islands , seventy thousand dollars, to be immediately available ;

. SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1433

For surveys and necessary resurveys of coasts on the Pacific Ocean Pacific coast. Proviso.
under the jurisdiction of the United States: Provided, That this appro- Employing, etc. priation be available for the transportation to and from Manila and Filipinos.
employment in the office at Washington of not to exceed three Fili-
pinos at any one time, one hundred and sixty thousand dollars, to be

immediately available;
For continuing researches in physical hydrography relating to har- raPphhyys. ical hydrogbors and bars, and for tidal and current observations on the coasts of the United States, or other coasts under the jurisdiction of the United States, six thousand four hundred dollars ;

For offshore soundings and examination of reported dangers on the Coast Pilot, etc.

coasts of the United States, and of coasts under the jurisdiction of the United States, and to continue the compilation of the Coast Pilot, and

to make special hydrographic examinations, and including the employment of such pilots and nautical experts in the field and office as may be necessary for the same, fifteen thousand dollars ;
For continuing magnetic observations and to establish meridian ,tiMonasg.netic observalines in connection therewith in all parts of the United States, and for
making magnetic observations in other regions under the jurisdiction of the United States, including the purchase of additional magnetic instruments, and the lease of sites where necessary and the erection of temporary magnetic buildings ; for continuing the line of exact levels between the Atlantic, Pacific, and ' Gulf coasts; for fur- rints toState sur-

nishing points to State surveys, to be applied as far as practicable in States where points have not been furnished; for determinations of geographical positions, and for continuing gravity observations, fifty thousand dollars :
For any special surveys that may be required by the Bureau of

Special surveys.

Lighthouses or other proper authority, and contingent expenses incident thereto, including expenses of surveys in aid of the shellfish commission of the State of Maryland, to be immediately available, thirteen thousand dollars ;

For objects not hereinbefore named that may be deemed urgent, Miscellaneous.

including the preparation or purchase of preliminary plans and specifications of vessels and the actual necessary expenses of officers of the

field force temporarily ordered to the office at Washington for con-

sultation with the superintendent, and for the expenses of the attendance of the American delegates at,the meetings of the International

Geodetic Association, not to exceed five hundred and fifty dollars, three thousand dollars ;

Provided, That ten per centum of the foregoing amounts shall be PIrnotveirscoh.angeableexavailable interchangeably for expenditure on the objects named, but penditures.
no more than ten per centum shall be added to any one item of appropriation;
In all, for field expenses, three hundred and seventeen thousand four hundred dollars."

Repairs and maintenance of vessels : For repairs and maintenance of the complement of vessels used in the Coast and Geodetic Survey, including the traveling expenses of the person inspecting the repairs, forty thousand dollars.
Officers and men, vessels, Coast and Geodetic Survey: For all necessary employees to man and equip the vessels of the Coast and

VRespsaeilrs., etc. Pay, etc.

Geodetic Survey, including professional seamen serving as executive officers and mates on vessels of the survey, to execute the work of the. survey herein provided for and authorized by law, two hundred and forty-five thousand dollars.
Salaries, Coast and Geodetic Survey: For superintendent, six thou- SSaulpaerriiens.tendent. sand dollars;

1434 Assistants.
Aids. Office force. Clerical. Draftsmen.
Computers. Engravers.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .
For pay of assistants, to be employed in the field or office, as the superintendent may direct, one of whom may be designated by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to act as assistant superintendent :
For two assistants, at four thousand dollars each; For one assistant, three thousand two hundred dollars ; For five assistants, at three thousand dollars each; For five assistants, at two thousand five hundred dollars each ; For one assistant, two thousand four hundred dollars ; For eight assistants, at two thousand two hundred dollars each ; For eight assistants, at two thousand dollars each; For eight assistants, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ; For eight assistants, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; For eight assistants, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; For ten assistants, at one thousand two hundred dollars cach ; For six aids, at one thousand one hundred dollars each ; For eighteen aids, at one thousand dollars, each ; and five aids, at nine hundred dollars each ; In all, one hundred and sixty thousand two hundred dollars. Pay of office force : For one disbursing agent, two thousand five hundred dollars ;
For one chief of division of library and archives, one thousand eight hundred dollars ;
For clerical force, namely: For two, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; For three, at one thousand six hundred and fifty dollars each ; For four, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; For eight, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; For five, at one thousand dollars each ; For ten, at nine hundred dollars each ; For six, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; For topographic and hydrographic draftsmen, namely : For one, at two thousand four hundred dollars ; For one, at two thousand two hundred dollars ; For three, at two thousand dollars each ; For three, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; For three, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; For three, at one thousand four hundred dollars each ; For three, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; For five, at one thousand dollars each ; For astronomical, geodetic, tidal, and miscellaneous computers, namely: For one, at two thousand five hundred dollars ; For one, at two thousand two hundred dollars; For two, at two thousand one hundred dollars each; For three, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each; For three, at one thousand six hundred dollars each ; For four, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; For five, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; For copperplate engravers, namely: For one, at two thousand four hundred dollars ; For two, at two thousand two hundred dollars each; For three, at two thousand dollars each;
For three, at one thousand eight hundred dollars each ;. For two, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; For two, at one thousand four hundred dollars each; For two, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; For two, at one thousand dollars each ; For engravers and apprentices, at not exceeding one thousand dollars each, three thousand six hundred dollars ;

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1435

For electrotypers and photographers, plate printers and their helpers, instrument makers, carpenters, engineer, and other skilled laborers, namely:
For one, at two thousand four hundred dollars ; For one, at two thousand dollars ; For two, at one thousand six hundred dollars each; For eleven, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; For five, at one thousand dollars each ; For three, at nine hundred dollars each ; For seven, at seven hundred dollars each; For watchmen, firemen, messengers, and laborers, namely: For three, at eight hundred and eighty dollars each ;
For four, at eight hundred and twenty dollars each ; For three, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; For four, at seven hundred dollars each ; For two, at six hundred and forty dollars each; For three, at six hundred and thirty dollars each; For four, at five hundred and fifty dollars each ; In all, one hundred and ninety-two thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.

Electrotypers, etc. Watchmen, etc.

Office expenses: For the purchase of new instruments, for materials and supplies required in the instrument shop, carpenter shop, and drawing division, and for books, scientific and technical books and
journals and books of reference, maps, charts, and subscriptions; for copperplates, chart paper, printer's ink, copper, zinc, and chemicals for electrotyping and photographing; engraving, printing, photographing, and electrotyping supplies ; and for photolithographing charts and printing from stone and copper for immediate use, and for the employment of expert lithographers in the office at an expenditure not exceeding three thousand five hundred dollars ; for stationery for the office and field parties, transportation of instruments and supplies when not charged to party expenses, office wagon and horses, heating, lighting, and power, telephones, including the operation of switchboard, telegrams, ice, and washing, office furniture, repairs, traveling expenses of assistants and others employed in the office sent on special duty in the service of the office, miscellaneous expenses, contingencies of all kinds, and for extra labor not to exceed three thousand four hundred dollars ; in all, fifty thousand dollars.
That no part of the money herein appropriated for the Coast and Geodetic Survey shall be available for allowance to civilian or other officers for subsistence while on duty at Washington (except as hereinbefore provided for officers of the field force ordered to Washington for short periods for consultation with the superintendent), except as now provided by law.

Office expense.s Allowances.

BUREAU OF FISHERIES.

Bureau of Fisheries.

Office of commissioner: Forcommissioner, six thousand dollars; dep-
uty commissioner, three thousand five hundred dollars ; chief clerk, two thousand four hundred dollars ; accountant, two thousand one
hundred dollars ; librarian, one thousand two hundred dollars; one clerk of class four; three clerks of class three; clerk to commissioner, one thousand six hundred dollars; one clerk of class one ; one clerk,
one thousand dollars; ten clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; engineer, one thousand and eighty dollars; three firemen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; five janitors and messengers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; janitress, four hundred and eighty dollars ; messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars ; four charwomen, at two hundred and forty dollars each; in all, forty-four thousand six hundred and eighty dollars.

CSaolmamriisess.ioner, etc.

1436

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Designation of act- Hereafter in the case of the absence of the Commissioner and ing commissioner.
Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries the Secretary of Commerce and

Labor may designate some officer of said bureau to perform the duties

Office of architect of the Commissioner during their absence.

and engineer.

Office of architect and engineer: Architect and engineer, two

thousand two hundred dollars ; assistant architect, one thousand

-six hundred dollars ; draftsman, one thousand two hundred dollars ;

in all, five thousand dollars.

Division of fish cul-

ture.

Division of Fish Culture- Office: Assistant in charge, two thousand

seven hundred dollars ; superintendent of car and messenger service,

one thousand six hundred dollars; one. clerk of class three; two

clerks of class two ; two clerks of class one; clerk, nine hundred

dollars (transferred from central station and aquaria) ; in all, twelve

thousand dollars.

Station employees. Central station.

Division of Fish Culture Station employees : Central Station and

Aquaria, Washington, District of Columbia: Superintendent of

station and aquaria, one thousand five hundred dollars; two skilled

Green Lake, Me.

laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; laborer, six hundred dollars; in all, three thousand five hundred and forty dollars.
Green Lake (Maine) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five

Craigs Brook, Me.

hundred dollars; foreman, nine hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand five hundred dollars.
Craigs Brook (Maine) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; foreman, nine hundred dollars; three laborers, at

six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars .

Saint Johnsbury, Vt.

Saint Johnsbury (Vermont) Station and Holden (Vermont) Aux-

iliary Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars ; skilled laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; four

Gloucester, Mass.

laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, six thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars. ·
Gloucester (Massachusetts) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars ; three

laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars.

Woods Hole, Mass. Woods Hole (Massachusetts) Station: Superintendent, one thou-

sand five hundred dollars; machinist, nine hundred and sixty dollars ;

fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; pilot and collector, seven hundred and twenty dollars; three firemen, at six hundred dollars each; four laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, eight thousand two hundred and eighty dollars. Cape Vincent, N.Y. Cape Vincent (New York) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; skilled laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; machinist, nine hundred and sixty dollars; two firemen, at

seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two laborers, at six hundred

dollars each ; in all, five thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars. Bryans Point, Md. Bryans Point (Maryland) Station: Custodian, three hundred and
sixty dollars.

Wytheville, Va.

Wytheville (Virginia) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; foreman, nine hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine

hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand five hundred dollars.

Put in Bay, Ohio.

Put in Bay (Ohio) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hun-

dred dollars; foreman, one thousand dollars; machinist, nine hundred

and sixty dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all,

four thousand six hundred and sixty dollars. Northville, Mich. Northville (Michigan) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five

hundred dollars ; foreman, nine hundred and sixty dollars ; fish

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1437

culturist, nine hundred dollars ; four laborers, at six hundred dollars
each; in all, five thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars. Alpena (Michigan) Station : Foreman, one thousand two hundred
dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; in all, two thousand one hundred dollars.

Alpena, Mich.

Duluth (Minnesota) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; foreman, nine hundred dollars ; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, four thousand five hundred dollars.

Duluth, Minn.

Neosho (Missouri) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; foreman, nine hundred dollars ; skilled laborer, seven
hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, four thousand three hundred and twenty dollars.
Leadville (Colorado) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two fish culturists, at nine hundred dollars each; skilled laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; cook, four hundred and eighty dollars ; in all, six thousand nine hundred dollars.
San Marcos (Texas) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five

Neosho, Mo. Leadville, Colo. San Marcos, Tex.

hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; three laborers, at six hundred dollars .. each; in all, five thousand- four hundred dollars.

Baird (California) and Battle Creek (California) Stations : Super- CrBeaeikr, dCala. nd Battle intendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand
and eighty dollars; foreman, nine hundred dollars; three laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, five thousand two hundred and eighty dollars.

Clackamas (Oregon) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; skilled laborer, seven hundred and twenty dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand three hundred and twenty dollars.
Manchester (Iowa) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars ; three laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars.

Clackamas, Oreg. Manchester, Iowa.

Bozeman (Montana) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.
Erwin (Tennessee) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars; three laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars.
Nashua (New Hampshire) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish culturist, nine hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.

Bozeman, Mont. Erwin, Tenn. Nashua, N. H.

Edenton (North Carolina) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.

Edenton, N. C.

Baker Lake (Washington) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.

Baker Lake, Wash.

Puget Sound (Washington) Stations : Three foremen, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; nine laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, nine thousand dollars.
Cold Springs (Georgia) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, three thousand six hundred dollars.

Puget Sound, Wash. Cold Springs, Ga.

1438

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Spearfish, S. Dak. Spearfish (South Dakota) Station : Superintendent, one thousand

five hundred dollars ; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; two labor-

ers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, three thousand six hundred

dollars.

White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.

White Sulphur Springs (West Virginia) Station : Superintendent,

one thousand five hundred dollars; fish-culturist, nine hundred dol-

Tupelo, Miss.

lars; three laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars.
Tupelo (Mississippi) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars ; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; three laborers,

at six hundred dollars each ; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars. MeB.oothbay Harbor, Boothbay Harbor (Maine) Station : Superintendent, one thousand
five hundred dollars ; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; engineer,

one thousand one hundred dollars ; skilled laborer, seven hundred

and eighty dollars ; three firemen, at six hundred dollars each; custo-

dian of lobster pounds, seven hundred and twenty dollars; two labor-

ers, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, eight thousand dollars.

Mammoth Spring, Ark.

Mammoth Spring (Arkansas) Station: Superintendent, one thou-

sand five hundred dollars ; fish-culturist, nine hundred dollars ; three

Yes Bay, Alaska.

laborers, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred dollars.
Yes Bay (Alaska) Hatchery : Superintendent, one thousand five hundred dollars; foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars ; two

skilled laborers, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each; three labor-

ers, at nine hundred dollars each ; cook, nine hundred dollars ; in all,

eight thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.

Afognak, Alaska.

Afognak (Alaska) Station : Superintendent, one thousand five hun-

dred dollars ; foreman, one thousand two hundred dollars; two

skilled laborers, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each ; three labor-

ers, at nine hundred dollars each ; cook, nine hundred dollars ; in all,

Homer, Minn.

eight thousand two hundred and twenty dollars. Homer (Minnesota) Station: Superintendent, one thousand five
hundred dollars ; scientific assistant, one thousand four hundred dol-

lars ; scientific assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars; foreman,

one thousand two hundred dollars; engineer, one thousand dollars;

two firemen, at six hundred dollars each; two laborers, at six hundred

dollars each; in all, eight thousand seven hundred dollars.

Biological stations.

Fairport, Iowa.

Biological Station, Fairport, Iowa: Director, one thousand eight

hundred dollars; superintendent of fish culture, one thousand five

hundred dollars; scientific assistant, one thousand four hundred

dollars; scientific assistant, one thousand two hundred dollars; fore-

man, one thousand two hundred dollars ; shell expert, one thousand

two hundred dollars; engineer, one thousand dollars; two firemen,

at six hundred dollars each; two laborers, at six hundred dollars

Beaufort, N. C.

each; in all, eleven thousand seven hundred dollars. Biological Station, Beaufort, North Carolina : Superintendent and

director, one thousand five hundred dollars ; two laborers, at six

hundred dollars each ; in all, two thousand seven hundred dollars. Employeesat large. Employees at large : Two field-station superintendents, at one

thousand eight hundred dollars each; two fish-culturists, at nine

hundred and sixty dollars each; two fish-culturists, at nine hundred

dollars each; five machinists, at nine hundred and sixty dollars each ; two coxswains, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; in all,

Distribution em- thirteen thousand five hundred and sixty dollars.

ployees.

Distribution employees : Five car captains, at one thousand two

hundred dollars each ; six car messengers, at one thousand dollars

each; five assistant car messengers, at nine hundred dollars each ;

five car laborers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; five

car cooks, at six hundred dollars each ; in all, twenty-three thousand one hundred dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1439

Division of inquiry respecting food fishes : Assistant in charge, two thousand seven hundred dollars ; assistant, two thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant, one thousand six hundred dollars ; two assistants, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; two assistants, at nine hundred dollars each ; one clerk of class one ; two clerks, at nine

Division of inquiry.

hundred dollars each ; in all, fourteen thousand dollars.

Division

of

statistics

and

methods

of

the

fisheries :

Assistant

in Divisionofstatistics, etc.

charge, two thousand five hundred dollars; two clerks of class four;

one clerk of class two ; two clerks, at one thousand dollars each ; one

clerk, at nine hundred dollars ; statistical agent, one thousand four

hundred dollars ; three statistical agents, at one thousand dollars each; one local agent at Boston, Massachusetts, three hundred dollars ; one local agent at Gloucester, Massachusetts, six hundred dollars ; one local agent at Seattle, Washington, six hundred dollars ; in all, sixteen thousand three hundred dollars.
Vessel service: Steamer Albatross : One naturalist, one thousand eight hundred dollars; one general assistant, one thousand two hun-

Vessel service. "Albatross."

dred dollars; one fishery expert, one thousand two hundred dollars ; clerk, one thousand dollars ; in all, five thousand two hundred dollars.
Steamer Fish Hawk: One cabin boy, four hundred and eighty dollars.

" Fish Hawk."

Schooner Grampus : Master, one thousand five hundred dollars; first mate, one thousand and eighty dollars; second mate, eight hundred and forty dollars ; engineer, eight hundred and forty dollars ; cook, six hundred dollars; three seamen, at six hundred dollars each;

" Grampus. "

one cabin boy, four hundred and twenty dollars ; in all, seven thousand and eighty dollars.
Steamer Phalarope: Master, one thousand two hundred dollars ; engineer, one thousand one hundred dollars ; fireman, seven hundred

" Phalarope."

and twenty dollars ; two seamen, at six hundred dollars each; cook, six hundred dollars; in all, four thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars.

Steamer Curlew: Pilot, one thousand one hundred dollars ; engineer, one thousand one hundred dollars ; fireman, seven hundred and twenty dollars ; cook, six hundred dollars; in all, three thousand five hundred and twenty dollars.
Steamer Gannet: Master, one thousand two hundred dollars ; engineer, one thousand one hundred dollars ; fireman, seven hundred and

" Curlew." "Gannet."

twenty dollars ; two seamen, at six hundred dollars each; in all, four thousand two hundred and twenty dollars.
Division of Alaska Fisheries : Chief.of division, three thousand five fiDshievriieso. n of Alaska hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; clerk salaries. of class two, one thousand four hundred dollars ; clerk of class one, one thousand two hundred dollars; clerk, nine hundred dollars ; agent,

fur-seal fisheries, three thousand six hundred and fifty dollars; assistant agent, fur-seal fisheries, two thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars; two assistant agents, fur-seal fisheries, at two thousand one hundred and ninety dollars each; naturalist, fur-seal fisheries, three

Fur-seal fisheries.

thousand dollars; janitor service, fur-seal fisheries, four hundred and eighty dollars; two physicians, Pribilof Islands, at one thousand two hundred dollars each; two school-teachers, Pribilof Islands, at one

thousand two hundred dollars each; storekeeper, Pribilof Islands, one thousand eight hundred dollars; agent, Alaska salmon fisheries, two Salmon fisheries.

thousand five hundred dollars; inspector, Alaska salmon fisheries, one

thousand eight hundred dollars; assistant agent, Alaska salmon fish-
eries, two thousand dollars; assistant agent, Alaska salmon fisheries, Wardens.
one thousand eight hundred dollars; warden, Alaska Service, one

thousand two hundred dollars; four deputy wardens, Alaska Service, at six hundred dollars each; in all, forty-one thousand five hundred and thirty dollars.

1440

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Administration ex-

penses.

Expenses of administration : For expenses of the office of the com-

missioner, including stationery, scientific books and periodicals, and

newspapers, for library, furniture, telegraph and telephone service,

repairs to and heating, lighting, and equipment of buildings, and

Propagation penses.

compensation of temporary employees, and all other necessary expenses connected therewith, ten thousand dollars. ex-
Propagation of food fishes : For maintenance, equipment, and
operations of the fish-cultural stations of the bureau, the general

propagation of food fishes and their distribution, including the move-

ment, maintenance, and repairs of cars, purchase of equipment and

apparatus, contingent expenses, and temporary labor, three hun-

dred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Maintenance of vessels.

Maintenance of vessels : For maintenance of the vessels and

launches, including the purchase and repair of boats, apparatus,

machinery, and other facilities required for use with the same, hire

of vessels, and all other necessary expenses in connection therewith, sixty thousand dollars.

foIondqufisrhieess. respecting Inquiry respecting food fishes : For expenses of the inquiry into the Field expenses. causes of the decrease of food fishes in the waters of the United States,

and for investigations and experiments in respect to the aquatic animals, plants, and waters, in the interests of fish culture and the

fishery industries, including expenses of travel and preparation of

reports, and for all other necessary expenses in connection therewith, thirty-five thousand dollars. Statistical inquiry.
Statistical inquiry: For expenses in the collection and compilation
of the statistics of the fisheries and the study of their methods and

relations, including travel and preparation of reports and all other

necessary expenses in connection therewith, seven thousand five

hundred dollars.

Interchangeable ex-

penditures.

And ten per centum of the foregoing amounts for the miscellaneous

expenses of the work of the bureau shall be available interchangeably

for expenditure on the objects named, but no more than ten per

centum shall be added to any one item of appropriation. Sponge fisheries. Expenses, protect- Protecting the sponge fisheries : For expenses in protecting the

ing Vol. 34, p. 313.

sponge fisheries, including employment of inspectors, watchmen and

temporary assistants, hire of boats, rental of office and storage, care

of seized sponges and other property, travel, and all other expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act of June twentieth,

Fairport, Iowa. Buildings, etc.
Homer, Minn. Buildings, etc.

nineteen hundred and six, tô regulate the sponge fisheries, five thousand dollars.
Biological station, Fairport, Iowa: For continuation of biological station at Fairport, Iowa, including construction of buildings , ponds, and for equipment, fifty thousand dollars.
Fish-cultural station, upper Mississippi River Valley (Homer, Minnesota): For continuation of fish-cultural station in upper

Mississippi River Valley, including construction of buildings, ponds ,

Beaufort, N. C. Repairs, etc.

roads, and for equipment, to be immediately available, twenty-seven thousand dollars.
Biological station, Beaufort, North Carolina : For repairs to build-

ing and equipment, improvements to grounds, and purchase of equipment, three thousand dollars.

Kentucky. Station in Jefferson

For the establishment of a fish-cultural station in Jefferson County,

County.

Kentucky, including the purchase of site, construction of buildings

and ponds, and equipment, twenty-five thousand dollars.

Wyoming. Equipping station,

Fish-cultural station, Wyoming: For the establishment of a fish-

etc.

cultural station in the State of Wyoming, including purchase of site,

construction of buildings and ponds, and equipment, at some suit-

able point to be selected by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor,

twenty-five thousand dollars.

Florida. Station on Gulf

Toward the construction of a marine biological station on the

coast .

Gulf of Mexico at a point on the coast of the State of Florida, twenty-

five thousand dollars.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1441-

For the establishment of a fish-cultural station, including purchase quipping station,

of site, construction of buildings and ponds, and equipment, at a etc.

point in the State of South Carolina to be selected by the Secretary

of Commerce and Labor, twenty-five thousand dollars .

"Albatross."

Steamer Albatross : For the purchase and installation of wireless Wireless apparatus.

apparatus for steamer Albatross and repairs incidental thereto, two

thousand five hundred dollars.
" Fish Hawk." Steamer Fish Hawk: For repairs to the steamer Fish Hawk, in- Repairs.

cluding new decks and upper works, new engines, and other necessary

repairs to hull, machinery, and rigging, twenty-eight thousand dollars.
Alaska Fisheries Alaska Fisheries Service: For protecting the seal fisheries of Service.
Alaska, including the furnishing of food, fuel, and clothing and other 'eriPerso.tecting seal fishnecessities of life to the natives of the Pribilof Islands, Alaska, trans- Food to natives, etc.

portation of supplies to and from the islands, expenses of travel of agents and other employees, purchase, hire, and maintenance of

vessels, including crews for same, and for all other expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act of April twenty-first, nineteen Ante, p. 326.

hundred and ten, entitled "An Act to protect the seal fisheries of Alaska Salmon fisheries. and for other purposes ; and for the protection of the salmon fisheries
of Alaska, including travel, hire of boats, employment of temporary

labor, and all other necessary expenses connected therewith," one hundred thousand dollars, to be immediately available.

Miscellaneous. MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR.

IMMIGRATION STATIONS.

Immigration sta tions.

Ellis Island. Immigrant Station, Ellis Island, New York Harbor : For new ice Ice plant, etc. plant, including building for same, twenty-five thousand dollars;

For toilet in courtyard and two drinking fountains, five thousand dollars ;
For rewiring of main building, twelve thousand five hundred dollars;

For new roof for central portion of main building,. fifteen thousand dollars ;

For new floor, wainscoting, and ceiling in engine and boiler room of power house, eight thousand five hundred dollars ;
For ash conveyor for power house, main island, three thousand two hundred dollars;

To commence the work of building a concrete sea wall and granite Seawall, etc. facings around the islands, and bulkhead deckings, not to exceed a

total cost of seven hundred and eighty-seven thousand one hundred and seventy dollars, one hundred thousand dollars ;
For additional for the purchase and installation of freight elevator in the kitchen and laundry building, one thousand five hundred dollars ;

In all, one hundred and seventy thousand seven hundred dollars. New Orleans, La. The Secretary of Commerce and Labor be, and he is hereby, au- staEtqiuoni.pment, etc. , of thorized and directed to enlarge, equip, and put into effective opera- Vol. 34, p. 1409. tion the immigration station at New Orleans, Louisiana, provided for

in the Act of March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven. There is hereby appropriated, as follows: Additional for buildings Expenses.

and approaches, fifty thousand dollars; one steel vessel, twenty-five

thousand dollars; additional land to complete the boundaries of the reservation, fifteen thousand dollars; equipment for operating the station, including furniture, furnishings of offices, hospital, medical

laboratory, restaurant, and so forth, fifty thousand dollars; in all, one hundred and forty thousand dollars.
For the construction of the immigrant station at Boston, Massachusetts, one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.

Boston, Mass Building.

1442

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Philadelphia, Pa. Limit of cost in-

The limit of cost for building a pier at the immigration station,

creased for pier, etc. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and the erection and furnishing of the

necessary buildings at that station in accordance with plans and speci-

fications prepared by the Supervising Architect of the Treasury

Vol. 35, p. 6.

Department, and under the supervision of the said department, and the Act of February sixth, nineteen hundred and eight (Thirty-fifth Statutes, page six) , is hereby extended in the sum of one hundred and

five thousand dollars, and appropriations made for said station may

be used for the erection of more than one building and a pier.

Immigration Service.

IMMIGRATION SERVICE.

Immigration of aliens.

Expenses of regulating immigration : For all expenses of the enforce-

laEwxspenses enforcing ment of the laws regulating the immigration of aliens into the United .

States, including the contract-labor laws ; for the costs of the reports

of decisions of the Federal courts, and digests thereof, for the use of

the Commissioner General of Immigration; for salaries and expenses

Vol. 34, p. 596.

of all officers, clerks, and employees appointed to enforce said laws ; for the enforcement of the provisions of the Act of February twentieth, nineteen hundred and seven, entitled " An Act to regulate the immigration of aliens into the United States " and acts amendatory thereof; for expenses of necessary supplies, alterations, and repairs,

etCc.hinese exclusion, and for all other expenses authorized by said Act ; also for preventing the unlawful entry of Chinese into the United States, by the appoint ment of suitable officers to enforce the laws in relation thereto, and the expenses of returning to China all Chinese persons found to be

unlawfully in the United States, including the cost of imprisonment and actual expense of conveyance of Chinese persons to the frontier

Refundingheadtax. or seaboard for deportation, and for the refunding of head tax upon presentation of evidence showing conclusively that collection

was made through error of Government officers ; all to be expended

Proviso.

under the direction of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, two

Credit of reimburse- million five hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars : Provided,

ments.

That from and after July first, nineteen hundred and eleven, all

moneys paid into the Treasury to reimburse the Immigration Service

for expenses of detained aliens paid from the appropriation for

expenses of regulating immigration, shall be credited to the appro-

priation for the expenses of regulating immigration for the fiscal

year in which the expenses were incurred.

Naturalization division .

Miscellaneous expenses, Division of Naturalization: For compen-

etSc.pecial examiners, sation, to be fixed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, of

examiners, interpreters, clerks, and stenographers, for the purpose

of carrying on the work of the Division of Naturalization, Bureau of

Vol. 34, p.596.

Immigration and Naturalization, provided for by the Act of Congress approved June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, enti-

fled "An Act to establish a Bureau ofImmigration and Naturalization and to provide for a uniform rule for the naturalization of aliens

throughout the United States," and for their actual necessary traveling expenses while absent from their official stations, including streetcar fares on official business at official stations, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Commerce and Labor may preetTc.raveling expenses, scribe ; and for the actual necessary traveling expenses of the officers and employees of the Division of Naturalization in Washington

while absent on official duty outside of the District of Columbia; for telegrams, verifications to legal papers, telephone service in offices outside of the District of Columbia ; not to exceed three thousand six hundred dollars for rent of offices outside of the District of Columbia

ofAcsosuirsttsa.nce to clerks where suitable quarters can not be obtained in public buildings ; and

Vol. 34, p. 600.

for the purpose of carrying into effect section thirteen of the Act of

Ante, p. 830.

June twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six (Thirty-fourth Stat-

utes, page eight hundred and ninety-six) , as amended by the Act

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

1443

approved June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, and that the
expenditures from this appropriation shall be in the manner and under such regulations as the Secretary of Commerce and Labor may prescribe, one hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars.

UNDER LEGISLATIVE.

Legislative.

Statement of approStatement of appropriations: For preparation, under the direction priations.
of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of

Representatives, of the statements showing appropriations made, new offices created, offices the salaries of which have been omitted,

increased, or reduced, indefinite appropriations, and contracts

authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular

appropriation Bills passed during the third session of the Sixty-first
Congress, as required by the Act approved October nineteenth eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, four thousand dollars, to be paid to the persons designated by the chairmen of said committees to do said work.
Botanic Garden: For general repairs to buildings, heating appara-
tus, painting, glazing, resurfacing footwalks and roadways, new steam boiler, general repairs to main conservatory, greenhouses, packing sheds, and storerooms , under the direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, seven thousand dollars.

Vol. 25, p. 587.
Botanic Garden. Repairs, etc.

Senate Office Building: For maintenance, miscellaneous items and inSgenate Office Buildsupplies, and for all necessary personal and other services for the care Maintenance, etc.
and operation of the Senate Office Building, under the direction and

supervision of the Senate Committee on Rules, forty-six thousand one hundred and twenty dollars.
To provide gratings for the area ways of the Senate Office Building, including labor and materials for same, five thousand and forty-eight dollars and sixty cents.

Gratings to area

House Office Building: For maintenance, including miscellaneous House Office Build-

items, and for all necessary services, thirty-seven thousand six hun- iaintenance. dred dollars.

To provide gratings for the area ways of the House Office Building, waGyrast. ings to area

including labor and materials for same, three thousand five hundred

dollars, to be immediately available, and together with the following

sum to be expended under the direction and supervision of the com-

Expenditures. Vol. 34, p, 1865.

mission in control of the House Office Building, appointed under the

Act approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven. For refrigerating apparatus for the Senate and House wings of the raRteufsrfiogrerbautiilndginagpsp.a-

Capitol and Senate and House Office Buildings, and for each and every

purpose connected therewith, including the cooling of the air supplied to the Senate Chamber and the Hall of the House, completion of the

Ice-water plants in the Senate and House Office Buildings, for labor,

materials, and personal services, seventy-two thousand two hundred

dollars, to be immediately available.

Transportation in

To provide suitable transportation for freight and other purposes in subway's to Senate

the subway leading from the Capitol to. the Senate and House Office BaunilddiHngosu. se Office Buildings and in the subbasement corridors of the Senate and House

Office Buildings, and for each and every purpose connected therewith,

including temporary operation, thirty-six thousand four hundred and

seventy-four dollars and forty cents, to be immediately available.

Railroad siding to

The temporary railroad siding used during the construction of the power plant contin-

heating, lighting, and power plant for the Capitol and other public ued.

buildings, constructed under a permit issued by the Commissioners

of the District of Columbia on the sixteenth day of February, nineteen hundred and nine, is authorized to be continued in use, for the

service of said power plant, with the approval of the commission in

1444

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

miAspspiorno.val of com- control of the House Office Building, appointed under the Act Vol. 34, p. 1365. approved March fourth, nineteen hundred and seven, so long as the

same shall be deemed necessary by the Superintendent of the Capitol

Building and Grounds.

House of Representatives.

Hall of the House of Representatives : To rearrange and reconstruct

strEuxcpteinnsge, estco.f, Hraelclo.n- the Hall of the House of Representatives, as authorized in the joint Vol. 35, p. 1168. resolution approved March second, nineteen hundred and nine, and

for furnishing said Hall, three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, teCnodemdm. ission ex- to continue available until expended, and the present members of

the commission authorized by said joint resolution, together with

Representative Champ Clark, Representative John J. Fitzgerald, and Representative Swagar Sherley, shall constitute the same until

the completion of the work hereby appropriated for.

Printing Investigation Commission.

Printing Investigation Commission : The authority vested in the

Authority contin- Printing Investigation Commission to examine into the general subued.

Vol. 35, p. 937. ject of the public printing and binding of Congress and the various

executive departments, as now existing under authority of an Act

making appropriations to supply deficiencies, approved March fourth,

Composition.

nineteen hundred and nine, is hereby continued during the term of the Sixty-second Congress ; and the said Commission shall consist of

three Senators who are members of the Joint Committee on Printing

and three Members of the House elected to the Sixty-second Congress,

to be appointed by the Speaker, and to serve until the Sixty-second Congress convenes, and the sum of ten thousand dollars is hereby appropriated to be immediately available and to continue available

until July first, nineteen hundred and twelve, for the expenses of said

Printing Investigation Commission.

Inspector for Joint Inspector for the Joint Committee on Printing, as provided for in

iCnogm.mittee on Print- section twenty of an Act to provide for the public printing and bind-

Salary. Vol. 28, p. 603.

ing, approved January twelfth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five,

two thousand dollars, one half to be paid by the Secretary of the

Senate and the other half to be paid by the Clerk of the House of

Representatives.

Alaskan investigation .

Alaskan Investigation: To defray the expenses of a joint committee

Joint committee to consist of five Members of the Senate and five Members of the

authorized.

Expenses, etc.. House of Representatives, who shall be appointed five by the presiding

officer of the Senate and five by the Speaker of the House of Repre

sentatives, ten thousand dollars, and said committee shall make an

investigation into the existing conditions in the Territory of Alaska

and report upon the same at the next regular session of Congress, with recommendations for such legislation as may be deemed neces-

sary, the said sum to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate upon vouchers to be approved by the chairman of the committee.

Government Printing Office.

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING..

Public Printer, purchasing agent, etc.

Office of the Public Printer : Public Printer, five thousand five hun-

dred dollars ; purchasing agent, three thousand six hundred dollars ;

chief clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ; accountant, two

thousand five hundred dollars ; assistant purchasing agent, two thou-

sand five hundred dollars ; cashier and paymaster, two thousand five

hundred dollars ; clerk in charge of the Congressional Record at the

Capitol, two thousand five hundred dollars; assistant accountant,

two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; chief timekeeper, two

thousand dollars ; one clerk, two thousand dollars ; paying teller, two

thousand dollars ; telegrapher and clerk, one thousand eight hundred

dollars ; ten clerks of class four ; eleven clerks of class three ; six clerks

of class two; six clerks of class one ; nine clerks, at one thousand dol-

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1445

lars each; four clerks, at nine hundred dollars each; six clerks, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; twelve clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; paymaster's guard, one thousand dollars; chief doorkeeper, one thousand two hundred dollars ; door-

keeper, one thousand two hundred dollars ; six assistant doorkeepers, at one thousand dollars each; two messengers, at eight hundred and

forty dollars each; chief delivery man, one thousand two hundred dollars; five delivery men, at nine hundred and fifty dollars each; telephone switchboard operator, seven hundred and twenty dollars; three assistant telephone switchboard operators, at six hundred dollars each; five messenger boys, at four hundred and twenty dollars

each; in all, one hundred and thirty thousand seven hundred and

eighty dollars ; Office of the Deputy Public Printer: Deputy Public Printer, four PrDinetperu, tetyc. Public
thousand five hundred dollars; two. clerks of class one; one clerk, nine hundred dollars; one chemist, one thousand six hundred dollars ;

one messenger, eight hundred and forty dollars; one messenger boy, four hundred and twenty dollars; in all, ten thousand six hundred

and sixty dollars;

Watch force : Captain of the watch, one thousand two hundred Watch force.

dollars; two lieutenants of the watch, at nine hundred dollars each;

and sixty-four day and night watchmen, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; in all, forty-nine thousand and eighty dollars.
Holidays: To enable the Public Printer to comply with the provisions of the law granting holidays and the executive order granting

Holidays.

half holidays with pay to the employees of the Government Printing Office, one hundred and eighty thousand dollars;

Leaves of absence: To enable the Public Printer to comply with Leaves of absence.

the provisions of the law granting thirty days' annual leave to the

employees of the Government Printing Office, three hundred and forty thousand dollars ;

For the public printing, for the publie binding, and for paper for biPnudbilnigc. printing and the public printing and binding, including the cost of printing the Aggregate amount. debates and proceedings of Congress in the Congressional Record, and for lithographing, mapping, and engraving, for both Houses of Congress, the Supreme Court of the United States, the supreme court of the District of Columbia, the Court of Claims, the Library of Con-

gress, the Smithsonian Institution, the Interstate Commerce Commission, the International Bureau of American Republics, the

Executive Office, and the departments ; for salaries, compensation, Office expenses. or wages, of all necessary employees additional to those herein

specifically appropriated for, including the compensation of the foreman of binding, and the foreman of printing; rents, fuel, gas,

electric current, gas and electric fixtures, and ice ; bicycles, horses, wagons and harness, electrical vehicles, and the care, driving, and subsistence of the same, to be used only for official purposes, including

the purchase, maintenance, and driving of horses and vehicles for official use of the officers of the Government Printing Office when in. writing ordered by the Public Printer; freight, expressage, telegraph

and telephone service; furniture, typewriters, and carpets ; traveling expenses, stationery, postage, and advertising; directories, technical books, and books of reference, not exceeding five hundred dollars;

adding and numbering machines, time stamps, and other machines of similar character; machinery (not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars) ; equipment, and for repairs to machinery, implements, and buildings, and for minor alterations to buildings; construction of roof over vacant walled space west of the H Street Annex to the Govern-

ment Printing Office; necessary equipment, maintenance, and sup- geSnucpyplrioeosm.for emer plies for the emergency room for the use of all employees in the Government Printing Office who may be taken suddenly ill or receive
88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-93

1446

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

itMemiss, cetec.llaneous injury while on duty ; other necessary contingent and miscellaneous items authorized by the Public Printer; and for all the necessary

Total.

materials and equipment needed in the prosecution and delivery of the work, four million five hundred and eighty-one thousand two hundred and thirty dollars ;
In all, for public printing and binding, including salaries of office

force, payment for holidays and leaves of absence, and the last named sum, five million two hundred and ninety-one thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars ; and from the said sum printing and binding shall be done by the Public Printer to the amounts following, respec-

Allotments. Congress.

tively, hamely:
For printing and binding for Congress, including the proceedings and debates, one million eight hundred and forty-six thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars. And printing and binding for Congress

chargeable to this appropriation, when recommended to be done by

the Committee on Printing of either House, shall be so recommended

in a report containing an approximate estimate of the cost thereof,

together with a statement from the Public Printer of estimated ap-

proximate cost of work previously ordered by Congress, within the fiscal year for which this appropriation is made.

Unpaid bills for speeches, etc.

In case any Senator, Representative, or Delegate shall fail to pay

Vol. 28, p. 606. Collection.

the cost of printing extracts from the Congressional Record or other

documents ordered by him to be printed in accordance with section

thirty-seven of the Act approved January twelfth, eighteen hundred

and ninety-five (Twenty-eighth Statutes at Large, page six hundred

and six) , the Public Printer shall certify the amount due to the

Sergeant at Arms of the House or the financial clerk of the Senate, as the case may be, and the Sergeant at Arms or financial clerk shall

Departments, etc.

deduct from any salary due the said delinquent the said amount, or as much thereof as the salary due may cover, and pay the amount so obtained to the Public Printer, to be applied by him to the satisfaction of the indebtedness.
For the State Department, thirty-seven thousand dollars. For the Treasury Department, three hundred and sixty thousand dollars.

For the War Department, two hundred and sixty-three thousand dollars.

For the Navy Department, one hundred and fifty-three thousand dollars, including not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars for the Hydrographic Office.

For the Interior Department, including not exceeding forty thou-. sand dollars for the Civil Service Commission, and not exceeding

twenty-five thousand dollars for the publication of the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Education, two hundred and ninety-five thousand five hundred dollars.

For the Patent Office, as follows : For printing the weekly issue of patents, designs, trade-marks, and labels, exclusive of illustrations; for printing and binding the monthly volumes of patents, and for

printing, engraving illustrations, and binding the Official Gazette, including weekly, monthly, bimonthly, and annual indexes, five hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

For the United States Geological Survey, as follows :

For engraving the illustrations necessary for the Annual Report of the Director, and for the monographs, professional papers, bulletins, water-supply papers, and the report on mineral resources, and for printing and binding the same publications, of which sum not more than thirty-five thousand dollars may be used for engraving, one hundred and sixty-five thousand dollars.
For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding the Annual Reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes,

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1447

ten thousand dollars ; under the Smithsonian Institution, for the Annual Reports of the National Museum, with general appendixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the Bulletins and Proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not exceed four thousand copies, and binding, in half morocco or material not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to or acquired by the National Museum Library, thirty-four thousand dollars; for the Annual Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the Bureau, twenty-one thousand dollars ; for miscellaneous printing and binding for the International Exchanges, two hundred dollars ; the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, one hundred dollars; the National Zoological Park, two hundred dollars ; the Astrophysical Observatory, four hundred dollars; and for the Annual
Report of the American Historical Association, seven thousand dollars ; in all, seventy-two thousand nine hundred dollars.
For the Department of Justice, thirty-five thousand dollars. For the United States Court of Customs Appeals, two thousand dollars .
For the Post Office Department, exclusive of the money-order . office, three hundred thousand dollars.
For the Department of Agriculture, including not to exceed fortyseven thousand dollars for the Weather Bureau, and including the Annual Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, as required by the Act approved January twelfth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, VVooll.. 2384,, pp.. 681225. and in pursuance of the provisions of Public Resolution Numbered Thirteen of the first session Fifty-ninth Congress, and also including not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars for farmers' bulletins, which shall be adapted to the interests of the people of the different sections of the country, an equal proportion of four-fifths of which shall be delivered to or sent out under the addressed franks furnished by Senators, Representatives, and Delegates
in Congress, as they shall direct, four hundred and seventy thousand dollars.
For the Department of Commerce and Labor, including the Coast and Geodetic Survey, three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars: Provided, That no part of this allotment shall be expended for PCreonvsiusso.Office. printing and binding for the Bureau of the Census.
For the Supreme Court of the United States, fifteen thousand dol-
lars; and the printing for the Supreme Court shall be done by the printer it may employ, unless it shall otherwise order.
For the supreme court of the District of Columbia, one thousand five hundred dollars.
For the Court of Claims, twenty-five; thousand dollars.
For the Library of Congress, including the copyright office, and the publication of the Catalogue of Title Entries of the copyright office, and binding, rebinding, and repairing of library books, and for building and grounds, Library of Congress, two hundred and two thousand dollars.
For the Executive Office, three thousand dollars. For the Interstate Commerce Commission, one hundred thousand dollars.
For the International Bureau of the American Republics, twenty thousand dollars.
Restriction. That no more than an allotment of one-half of the sum hereby appropriated for the public printing and for the public binding shall be expended in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, and no more than one-fourth thereof may be expended in either of the last two quarters of the fiscal year, except that, in addition thereto, in either of said last quarters the unexpended balances of allotments for pre-

1448

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS . SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911.

Allotment for 1911. Transfers directed. Ante, p. 768. Ante, p. 769.
Ante, p. 767.

ceding quarters may be expended ; and no department or Government establishment shall consume in any such period a greater percentage of its allotment than can be lawfully expended during the same period of the whole appropriation.
Of the allotment of the appropriation for public printing and binding for the Patent Office for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, there is hereby made available for public printing and binding for the Interstate Commerce Commission twenty thousand dollars and for the Executive offices one thousand dollars, and of the allotment of the appropriation for public printing and binding for the Post Office Department for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eleven, there is hereby made available for public printing and binding for the Supreme Court of the United States two thousand five hundred dollars, and of the specific appro-

priation for holidays under the appropriation for public printing and binding for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , nineteen hundred and eleven, there is hereby made available the sum of fifteen thousand

dollars for the payment of leaves of absence.

Apportionment of expenditures to work

All expenditures from appropriations made herein under Govern-

executed.

ment Printing Office, except appropriations for salaries and for stores

and general expenses in and for the office of superintendent of docu-

ments, shall be equitably apportioned and charged, by the Public

Printer, to each publication or work executed under any of the fore-

going allotments so that the total charges for work done from the appropriations aforesaid shall not be less than the total amount

actually expended from all of said appropriations.

teOnfdfeincet ofof SupDeorciun--
ments.
Superintendent, assistants, etc.

OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS . For superintendent of documents, three thousand five hundred dol-

lars; assistant superintendent of documents, two thousand five hundred dollars ; one clerk of class four; four clerks of class three; four
clerks of class two ; eight clerks of class one ; eight clerks, at one thousand dollars each; six clerks, at nine hundred dollars each ; eleven

clerks, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each ; one cataloguer in charge, one thousand eight hundred dollars ; two cataloguers, at one thousand five hundred dollars each; three cataloguers, at one thousand two hundred dollars each ; one cataloguer, one thousand one hundred dollars ; seven cataloguers, at one thousand dollars each ; five cataloguers, at nine hundred dollars each ; cashier, one thousand six hundred dollars ; one librarian, one thousand five hundred dollars ;
shipper in charge, one thousand two hundred dollars ; stock keeper,
one thousand one hundred dollars ; three stock keepers, at one thousand dollars each; five stock keepers, at nine hundred dollars each ; two stock keepers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; two assistant messengers, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each; three mailers, at eight hundred and forty dollars each; janitress, six hundred and twenty-six dollars; two folders, at six hundred and twenty-six dollars each ; eleven laborers, at six hundred and twentysix dollars each; five messenger boys, at four hundred and twenty dollars each ; in all, one hundred thousand eight hundred and eightyfour dollars. Contingent expenses. For furniture and fixtures, typewriters, carpets, labor-saving machines and accessories, time stamps, adding and numbering

machines, awnings, curtains, books of reference, directories, books, miscellaneous office and desk supplies; wrapping paper, including wrappers for Congressional Record and Patent Office Gazette; twine,

glue, envelopes, postage, car tickets, soap, toilet paper, towels, disinfectants, and ice; drayage, express, freight, telephone and telegraph service; repairs to building, elevators, and machinery; preserving

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

1449

sanitary condition of building, light, heat, and power; stationery and office printing, including blanks, price lists, and bibliographies, forty-two thousand dollars; for catalogues and indexes, not exceeding sixteen thousand dollars; for binding reserve remainders, and for supplying books to depository libraries, ninety-seven thousand dollars; in all, one hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars.

THE ISTHMIAN CANAL.

Isthmian Canal.

To continue the construction of the Isthmian Canal, to be expended

Construction. Vol. 32, p. 482.

under the direction of the President, in accordance with an Act

entitled "An Act to provide for the construction of a canal connecting the waters ofthe Atlantic and Pacific oceans, " approved June twenty-

eighth, nineteen hundred and two, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto:

First. For salaries of officers and employees of the Isthmian Canal CSalnaarlieCsomimnisUsnitoen.d
Commission, including assistant purchasing and shipping agents, and States. all other employees in the United States, one hundred and thirty thousand dollars.

Second. For incidental expenses, including rents, cable and tele- Incidental expenses.

graph service, supplies, stationery and printing, and actual necessary traveling expenses in the United States (including rent of the Panama Rent, etc.

Canal building in the District of Columbia, seven thousand five hun-

dred dollars, textbooks and books of reference, one thousand dollars,

and additional compensation to the Auditor for the War Department

for extra services in auditing accounts of the Isthmian Canal, one

thousand dollars), fifty thousand dollars.

Construction, etc.,

Third. For pay of members of the commission and officers and em- departments.

ployees

on the

Isthmus,

other

than

skilled

and

unskilled

labor,

includ-

· Pay of commissioners and employees on

ing civil engineers, superintendents, instrumentmen, transitmen, the Isthmus.

levelmen, rodmen, draftsmen, timekeepers, mechanical and electri-

cal , engineers, quartermasters, clerks, accountants, stenographers,

storekeepers , messengers, office boys, foremen and subforemen, wagon masters, watchmen, and stewards, including those temporarily detailed for duty away from the Isthmus, in the departments of construction and engineering, quartermaster's, subsistence, disbursements and examination of accounts, three million nine hundred thousand dollars : Provided, That not more than five thousand dollars of this appropria-

PPraovyiosfos. ecretary.

tion shall be paid as compensation to the secretary of the commission. Labor. Fourth. For skilled and unskilled labor on the Isthmus, including

engineers, conductors, firemen, brakemen, electricians, teamsters, cranesmen, machinists, blacksmiths, and other artisans, and their

helpers; janitors, sailors, cooks, waiters, and dairymen, forthe depart-
ments of construction and engineering, quartermaster's, subsistence, disbursements and examination of accounts, sixteen million five

hundred thousand dollars.

Fifth. For purchase and delivery of material, supplies, and equipment, including cost of inspecting material and of paying traveling expenses incident thereto, whether on the Isthmus or elsewhere, and such other expenses not in the United States as the commission deems necessary to best promote the construction of the Isthmian Canal, for the departments of construction and engineering, quartermaster's, subsistence, disbursements and examination of accounts, nineteen million dollars.
Sixth. For miscellaneous expenditures, cable and telegraph service,

Purcehtca.se of mateMiscellaneous.

stationery and printing, local railway transportation, special trains,

including pay-train service; transportation ofcurrency to the Isthmus,

recruiting and transporting laborers, transporting employees from

the United States, repatriating laborers and employees, actual necessary traveling expenses while on the Isthmus on official business;

1450

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

expenses incident to conducting hearings and examining estimates for appropriations on the Isthmus, and all other incidental and contingent expenses not otherwise provided for, for the departments of

construction and engineering, quartermaster's, subsistence, dis-

bursements and examination of accounts, nine hundred and fifty

thousand dollars.

GovernmentofCanal

Zone.

Seventh. For pay of the member of the commission in charge, of

ofPfaicyerosf,ceotmcm.issioner, officers and employees, other than skilled and unskilled labor, including foremen, subforemen, watchmen, messengers, and storekeepers,

of the department of civil administration, including those necessarily

and temporarily detailed for duty away from the Isthmus, five hun-

Labor.

dred and fifty thousand dollars ; Eighth. For skilled and unskilled labor for the department of civil

administration, twenty thousand dollars ;

Materials, etc.

Ninth. For material, supplies, equipment, construction and repairs

of buildings, and contingent expenses of the department of civil administration, including not exceeding five hundred dollars for law

books, one hundred and ten thousand dollars ;

Sanitation department.

Tenth. For pay of the member of the commission in charge, of offi-

ofPfaicyeorfs,ceotmcm.issioner, cers and employees other than skilled and unskilled labor, including hospital dispensers, internes, nurses, attendants, messengers, office

boys, foremen and subforemen , watchmen, and stewards, of the de-

Labor.

partment of sanitation on the Isthmus, including those temporarily detailed for duty away from the Isthmus, " six hundred thousand
dollars ; Eleventh. For skilled and unskilled labor of every grade and kind,
for the department of sanitation on the Isthmus, two hundred thousand dollars ;

Materials, etc.

Twelfth. For material, supplies, equipment, construction andrepairs of buildings, medical aid and support of the insane, and of indigent persons permanently disabled, while in the line of duty and in the

employ of the Isthmian Canal Commission, from earning a livelihood,

and contingent expenses of the department of sanitation on the

Isthmus, eight hundred thousand dollars.

Relocating Panama Railroad .

Thirteenth. For the payment of the cost of relocating the Panama

Railroad, including salaries, wages, material, and supplies, and all

other expenses incident thereto, two million seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars .

Amount.

In all, forty-five million five hundred and sixty thousand dollars,

the same to be immediately available and to continue available until

Proviso.

expended : Provided, That all expenditures from the appropriations

saElexpoefnbdointdusr.es from heretofore, herein, and hereafter made for the Isthmian Canal, exclu-

sive of fortifications, shall be paid from, or reimbursed to the Treasury

of the United States out of the proceeds of the sale of bonds author-

Vol. 32, p. 484. Ante, p. 117.

ized in section eight of the said Act approved June twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and two, and section thirty-nine of the tariff Act

approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and ten.

Numberof employees Except in cases of emergency, or conditions arising subsequent to

limited to estimates. and unforeseen at the time of the passage of this Act, there shall not

be employed at any time during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and

twelve, under any of the foregoing appropriations for the Isthmian Canal, any greater number of persons than are specified in the notes

submitted respectively in connection with the estimates for each of

said appropriations in the annual book of estimates for said year,

nor shall there be paid to any of such persons during that fiscal year any greater rate of compensation than was authorized to be paid to

persons occupying the same or like positions on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and ten, and all employments made or compensa-

tion increased because of emergencies or conditions so arising shall be specifically set forth, with the reasons therefor, by the chairman

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. C. 285. 1911 .

1451

of the commission in his report for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve.
Ten per centum of the foregoing amounts shall be available inter- prIonptreiracthiaonnsg.eable apchangeably for expenditure on objects named; but not more than ten per centum shall be added to any one item of the appropriation.
No part of the foregoing appropriations for the Isthmian Canal anLcoesnrgeestvriictteyda. llowshall be applied to the payment of allowances for longevity service, or lay-over days other than such as may have accumulated under
existing orders of the commission, prior to July first, nineteen hundred and nine.

FORTIFICATIONS, ISTHMIAN CANAL.

Fortifications.

For construction

of

seacoast

batteries

on the

Canal

Zone,

Seacoast batteries, two cost.

million dollars. ·

For the purchase, manufacture and test of seacoast cannon for Seacoastcannon, etc.

coast defense, including their carriages, sights, implements, equipments, and the machinery necessary for the manufacture at the arsenals, to cost ultimately not to exceed one million nine hundred

and sixty-six thousand dollars, one million dollars, the same to be immediately available and to continue available until expended.

SEO. 2. Hereafter the Panama Railroad Company shall carry no tPoancaarmrayRaiinlsruoraadnncoet, insurance to cover marine or fire losses, nor make any further payment,norpay fornotes, etc.

on the principal or interest on notes heretofore given by it to the United States for moneys appropriated for its use.

SEO. 3. All funds collected by the government of the Canal Zone reDviensutersi. bution of from rentals of public lands and buildings in the Canal Zone and the cities of Panama and Colon, and from the zone postal service, and

from court fees and fines, and collected or raised by taxation in what-

ever form under the laws of the government of the Canal Zone, are hereby appropriated until and including June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and twelve, as follows: The revenues derived from the postal service to the maintenance of that service ; the remaining revenues,

including any balances unexpended in prior years, after setting aside a miscellaneous and contingent fund of not exceeding ten thousand dollars, to the maintenance of the public-school system in the zone; to the construction and maintenance of public improvements within

the zone; to the maintenance of the administrative districts; to the

maintenance of Canal Zone charity patients in the hospitals of the

Isthmian Canal Commission, and to the maintenance of administrative Statement to Condistrict prisoners. A detailed and classified statement of all receipts gress.

and expenditures without the duplication of items under this para-

graph shall be submitted to Congress after the close of the fiscalyear
nineteen hundred.and twelve.. Fundsfrom services,
SEO. 4. All funds realized during the fiscal year nineteen hundred sales, etc.

and twelve by the Isthmian Canal Commission from the performance coRnesatrpupcrtoiporni.ated for

of services by the commission, or from rentals, or from the sale of

materials and supplies under the custody or control of the commis-

sion, are appropriated for expenditure under any of the foregoing

classified appropriations for the department of construction and

engineering; and a full and separate report in detail of all transac-

tions under this section shall be made to Congress.

Unserviceable equip

That until the close of the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, ment, etc. ,may besold

when any material, supplies, and equipment heretofore or hereafter withoutadvertising.

purchased or acquired for the construction of the Isthmian Canal is

no longer needed, or is no longor serviceable, it may be sold in such

manner as the Secretary of War may direct, and without advertising

in such classes of cases as may be authorized by him.

1452

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. CH. 285. 1911 .

Injuries to employees.

SEC. 5. That hereafter the Act granting to certain employees of the

loCwoemdp. ensation al- United States the right to receive from it compensation for injuries Vol. 35, p. 557. sustained in the course of their employment shall apply to all employ-

ees under the Isthmian Canal Commission , when injured in the course

of their employment; and claims for compensation on account of injury or death resulting from an accident occurring hereafter shall

be settled by the chairman of the Isthmian Canal Commission, who shall, as to such claims and under such regulations as he may pre-

scribe, perform all the duties now devolving upon the Secretary of

Proviso.

Commerce

Filing claims for

and

Labor :

Provided,

That

when

an

injury

results

in

deaths.

death, claim for compensation on account thereof shall be filed

within one year after such death.

Panama Railroad. Bond not required

SEO. 6. Hereafter the Panama Railroad Company shall not be

for services, etc., br. required to give bond, either with or without surety, in contracts

which it may make to furnish services, materials, or supplies to the

Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or other departments of the Government,

and such contracts may be made for periods less than one year, as may be agreed on, and formal contracts in writing shall not be

required unless agreed on.

Sums for salaries to be in full.

SEO. 7. That all sums appropriated by this Act for salaries of

officers and employees of the Government shall be in full for such

salaries for the fiscal year nineteen hundred and twelve, and all laws

or parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act be, and the same are hereby, repealed

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

RESOLUTIONS .

[No. 1. ]

Joint Resolution To pay the officers and employees of the Senate and

December 20, 1910. [S.J. Res. 130.]

House of Representatives their respective salaries for the month of December, nine-

teen hundred and ten, on the twenty-first day of said month.

(Pub. Res., No. 52.]

Resolved bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Congressional of- ficers, etc., to be paid Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives be, and they are December salaries
hereby, authorized and instructed to pay the officers and employees December 21, 1910.
of the Senate and House of Representatives, including the Capitol Police, their respective salaries for the month of December, nineteen
hundred and ten, on the twenty-first day of said month.
Approved, December 20, 1910.

[No. 2. ] Joint Resolution To continue in full force and effect an Act entitled De[cSe.mJ.bReers2.31,251.9]10. "An Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the soldiers and sailors of the Confederate Army and Navy who died in northern prisons and were [Pub. Res., No. 53.] buried near the prisons where they died, and for other purposes."

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Confederatesoldiers States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act entitled "An and sailors.
Act to provide for the appropriate marking of the graves of the whMoardkiiedngingrnaovretsheorfn, soldiers and sailors of the Confederate Army and Navy who died in. prisons.

northern prisons and were buried near the prisons where they died, and for other purposes," approved March ninth, nineteen hundred and six, and continued in full force and effect for two years by joint resolution approved February twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and eight, and for the additional period of one year by a joint resolution approved on February twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, be, and the same

Vol. 35, p. 567. Ante, p. 875.

is hereby, continued in full force and effect for two years from this TPriomveiscoo.ntinued. date: Provided, That where it has been, or shall hereafter be, found Central monuimpossible to identify the individual burial places of Confederate ments, etc.
prisoners of war, the Secretary of War is hereby authorized to cause
to be erected central masonry constructions, or monuments, upon

which bronze tablets shall be placed containing the names of the

deceased prisoners of war who are buried in its immediate vicinity;

and where contracts have been entered into for the erection of such

central

masonry

constructions,

or

monuments,

and

have

been

executed

Payment tracts.

of

con.

in good faith, the Secretary of War is hereby authorized to cause the

necessary payments to be made in liquidation of such obligations.

Approved, December 23, 1910.

[No. 3.] Joint Resolution Providing for the filling of a vacancy, which occurred February 9, 1911. on January twenty-third, nineteen hundred and eleven, in the Board of Regents [S.J. Res. 133.]

ofthe Smithsonian Institution of the class other than Members of Congress.

(Pub. Res., No. 54.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Smithsonian Insti-
States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe vacancy which tution. occurred on January twenty-third, nineteen hundred and eleven, in James B. Angell rethe Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other appointed Regent.
than Members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of
James B. Angell, of Michigan, whose term of office will expire on that date.
Approved, February 9, 1911. 1453

1454

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES. 4-6. 1911.

February 14, 1911. [S.J. Res. 101. ]

[ No. 4. ] Joint Resolution Providing for the printing of two thousand copies of

Senate Document Numbered Three hundred and fifty-seven, for use of the Depart-

(Pub. Res., No. 55.] ment of State.

Treatles, etc.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Printing ordered States of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed for use

for Department of of the Department of State two thousand copies of Senate Document mSteantte oNfo.Se3n5a7.te Docu- Numbered Three hundred and fifty-seven, Sixty- first Congress, second

sesion, "Treaties, Conventions, International Acts, Protocols, and

Agreements between the United States of America and other powers. "

Approved, February 14, 1911.

February 15, 1911. [ No. 5.] Joint Resolution_Authorizing the President to invite foreign countries [H.J. Res. 213.] to participate in the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in nineteen hundred
(Pub. Res., No. 56.] and fifteen, at San Francisco, California.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Panama-Pacific Ex- States of America in Congress assembled, That whenever it shall be

pciossciot,io19n1a5t. San Fran- shown to the satisfaction of the President of the United States that a

foPreriegsnidecnotunttoriiensvittoe suitable site has been selected, and that the sum of not less than fifteen

participate in.

million dollars will be available to enable the Panama-Pacific Interna-

tional Exposition Company, a corporation organized and existing 'under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, for the

purpose of inaugurating, carrying forward, and holding an exposition at the city and county of San Francisco, California, on or about the first day of January, nineteen hundred and fifteen, to celebrate the completion and opening of the Panama Canal, and also the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of the Pacific Ocean, the President

of the United States be, and he hereby is, authorized and respectfully

requested, by proclamation or in such manner as he may deem proper, to invite all foreign countries and nations to such proposed exposition,

with a request that they participate therein.

Approved, February 15, 1911.

February 16, 1911. [S.J. Res. 124. ]
(Pub. Res., No. 57.]
Preamble.

[No. 6.] Joint Resolution Reaffirming the boundary line between Texas and the Territory of New Mexico.
Whereas the constitutional convention recently held in the Territory of New Mexico submitted for acceptance or rejection the draft of a proposed constitution for the State of New Mexico , to be voted upon by the voters of said proposed new State on the twenty-first day of January, nineteen hundred and eleven, which proposed constitution contains a clause attempting to annul and set aside

the boundary lines heretofore legally run, marked, established, and ratified by the United States and the State of Texas, said lines between the Territory of New Mexico and the State of Texas hav-

ing been run by John H. Clark, the boundary commissioner acting for the United States in eighteen hundred and fifty-nine and

eighteen hundred and sixty, the said lines being now known and recognized as the Clark lines ; and
Whereas the United States and the State of Texas have patented land based upon the Clark lines as the boundary between Texas and the

Territory of New Mexico : Therefore be it

Texas and

New

Resolved by the States of America

Senate and in Congress

House of Representatives of the assembled, That any provision

United of said

Mexico boundary.

tutPiroonviosfiNoneiwnMceoxnsitcio- proposed constitution that in any way tends to annul or change the

not to affect.

boundary lines between the State of Texas and the Territory or State

of New Mexico shall be of no force or effect, but shall be construed so

as not in any way to change, affect , or alter the said boundary lines

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES . 6. 1911 .

1455

known as the Clark lines and heretofore run and marked by him as a

commissioner on the part of the United States and concurred in by

the State of Texas, and the former ratification of said Clark lines by

the United States by the Act approved March third, eighteen hundred Vol . 26, p. 971.

and ninety-one, and the State of Texas by the joint resolution passed

March twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, shall be held.

and deemed a conclusive location and settlement of said boundary

lines.

SEO.

2.

That the

President

of the

United

States is

hereby

author-

Re-marking ary .

bound-

ized,

in

conjunction

with

the

State

of

Texas,

to

reestablish

and

re-

Commissioners to be appointed.

mark the boundary lines heretofore established and marked by John

H. Clark between New Mexico and the State of Texas, and for such

purpose he is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint a com-

missioner, who, in conjunction with such commissioner as may be

appointed by and on behalf of the State of Texas for the same pur-
pose, shall re-mark the boundary between the Territory of New Mexico and the State of Texas as follows: Beginning at the point Location.

where the one hundred and third degree of longitude west from

Greenwich intersects the parallel of thirty-six degrees and thirty

minutes north latitude, as determined and fixed by John H. Clark,

the commissioner on the part of the United States in the years eight-

een hundred and fifty-nine and eighteen hundred and sixty; thence

south with the line run by said Clark for the said one hundred and

third degree of longitude to the thirty-second parallel of north lati-

tude to the point marked by said Clark as the southeast corner of New Mexico; and thence west with the thirty-second degree of north

latitude as determined by said Clark to the Rio Grande. Clark boundary
SEC. 3. That the part of the line run and marked by monuments lines decl. red crue
along the thirty-second parallel of north latitude and that part of the boundary.

line marked by monuments along the one hundred and third degree

of longitude west from Greenwich, the same being the east and west and north and south lines between Texas and New Mexico, and run

by authority of the Act of Congress approved June fifth, eighteen Vol. 11, p. 310.

hundred and fifty-eight, and known as the Clark lines, which said

lines as run by said Clark have been confirmed, as aforesaid, by the

Act of Congress approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- Vol . 26, p. 971.

one, and the joint resolution of the Legislature of Texas passed March

twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, shall remain the true Proviso. boundary lines of Texas and New Mexico : Provided, That it shall be Re-marking old

the duty of the commissioners appointed under this Act to re-mark monuments, etc. said old Clark monuments and line where they can be found and

identified by the original monuments now on the ground, or where

monuments are now missing or the lines can not be found but their

original position can be shown by competent parol evidence or by the

topographic maps or field notes made by said Clark, the monuments

so found or their position so identified shall determine the true posi-

tion and course of the boundary lines as marked by said Clark to the

full extent of the survey made by him, and where no survey was actu-

ally originally made on said lines it shall be the duty of the said com-

missioners to run a straight line between the nearest points deter-

mined by the Clark map, field notes, and survey, and when said

straight lines have been so run, marked, and agreed upon by the com-

missioners they shall thereafter form the true boundary lines. SEC. 4. That the sum of twenty thousand dollars, or so much Appropriation.

thereof as may be necessary, be, and the same is hereby, appropri-
ated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, Proviso. to carry out the purposes of this Act: Provided, That the person or Texas commispersons appointed and employed on the part of the State of Texas stoner.

shall be paid by the said State.

Approved, February 16, 1911.

1456

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES. 8-10. 1911.

February 23, 1911. [S.J.Res. 139.]

[No. 8. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the printing of the message of the Presi

dent, together with the report of the agent of the United States in the North Atlantic

[Pub. Res,No. 58.] Coast Fisheries Arbitration at The Hague.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

CoNasotrtFihsheArtilesanArtbiic- States ofAmerica in Gongress assembled, That the President's message

tration . Printing

ordered

of

of

February

first,

nineteen

hundred

and

eleven,

together

with the

messages, report, etc. , report of the agent of the United States in the North Atlantic Coast

on.

Fisheries Arbitration at The Hague, transmitted therewith, and the

appendices to the report, be printed as a public document, together

with an additional five hundred copies for the Department of State,

the cost thereof to be defrayed out of the appropriation for printing

and binding for Congress.

Approved, February 23, 1911.

February 24, 1911. (S.J. Res. 131. ]

[No. 9. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary ofWarto receive, for instruc-

tion at the Military Academy at West Point, two Chinese subjects, to be designated

(Pub. Res., No. 59.] hereafter by the Government of China.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

TMiwloitaCrhyinAecsaedesmuby-: States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War jects admitted to. be, and he hereby is, authorized to permit two Chinese subjects, to be.

Provisos. No expense, etc.

designated hereafter by the Government of China, to receive instruction at the Military Academy at West Point: Provided, That no expense shall be caused to the United States thereby, and that the said Chinese

subjects shall agree to comply with all regulations for the police and

discipline of the Academy, to be studious, and to give their utmost

Oath and service. efforts to accomplish the courses in the various departments of instruc-

R.S.,seca. 1320, 1321, tion: And provided further, That in the case of the said Chinese

p. 227.

subjects the provisions of sections thirteen hundred and twenty and

thirteen hundred and twenty-one shall be suspended.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

February 24, 1911. [No. 10. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of War to loan certain [S. J. Res. 140.] tents for the use of the Confederate Veterans' Reunion, to be held at Little Rock,
[Pub. Res. , No. 60.] Arkansas, in May, nineteen hundred and eleven.

Confederate Veter- Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United an's Reunion, Little States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Rock, Ark.
Loan of tents to. be, and is hereby, authorized to loan, at his discretion, to the execu-
tive committee of the Confederate Veterans' Reunion, to be held at

Little Rock, Arkansas, in the month of May, nineteen hundred and

Provisos. No expense, etc.

eleven, such tents, with necessary poles, ridges, and pins, as may be required at said reunion: Provided, That no expense shall be caused the United States Government by the delivery and return of said

property, the same to be delivered to said committee designated at

such time prior to the holding of said reunion as may be agreed upon

Bond required.

by the Secretary of War and William M. Kavanaugh, general chairman of said executive committee: And provided further, That the

Secretary of War shall, before delivering such property, take from

said William M. Kavanaugh a good and sufficient bond for the safe

return of said property in good order and condition , and the whole without expense to the United States.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES. 11 , 12. · 1911.

1457

[No. 11. Joint Resolution Creating a commission to investigate and report on the advisability of the establishment of permanent maneuvering grounds, camp of inspection, rifle and artillery ranges for troops of the United States at or near the Chickamauga and Chattanooga Military Park, and to likewise report as to certain lands in the State of Tennessee proposed to be donated to the United States for said purposes.

February 24, 1911. [H. J. Res. 146.]
[Pub. Res., No. 61.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the grAorunmdys.maneuvering United States be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to appoint Commission to rea commission consisting of five officers of the Army of the United peotrct.oonf,adavtisaCbhiilciktay-.

States to make a full and complete investigation, and consider carefully mauga Park, Tenn. whether or not it is advisable to make, establish, and maintain a

maneuvering ground and camp of inspection, rifle and artillery ranges

for United States troops at or near the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park. Said commission shall fully consider the Scopeof inquiry.

advantages and disadvantages of the lands contiguous to or near to said

park for the purposes herein stated, and report fully as to probable number of acres of land necessary to purchase, and the probable cost of the same, and as to all facts and conditions material to be considered in the premises. The report shall be filed in the War Department by December first, nineteen hundred and eleven, and communicated to

Report.

Congress thereafter as soon as practicable by the President. SEC. 2. That said board or commission shall also examine carefully foLraenndusi,entTc.enonfeSstsaetee

all lands within the State of Tennessee that may be proposed to be trCooopmsm.ission to exdonated to the United States for the establishment and maintenance amine and report on

thereon of a maneuvering encampment and rifle and artillery ranges proposed donation of. for the assembling of troops from the group of States composed of Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, and South Carolina and report on the advisability of establishing such camps, rifle and artillery ranges on such lands proposed to be donated and whether the lands proposed to be donated are suitable and desirable for such purposes, and how much land would be properly required for said purposes, and whether the lands proposed to be donated are sufficient in quantity for the purposes proposed, and

conveniently located for use by troops from said States, and the facilities for transportation of troops and supplies to and from said lands, and such other facts as may be material to be considered in the premises.
SEC. 3. That the said board or commission shall serve without com-

Expenses allowed.

pensation but shall be paid actual necessary expenses.

Approved, February 24, 1911.

[No. 12.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the delivering to the commander in chief February 25, 1911.

ofthe United Spanish War Veterans of one or two dismounted bronze cannon.

[S. J. Res. 132. ]

(Pub. Res., No. 62.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War ODbosnoalteetdectaonnUonni.ted is hereby authorized to deliver to the order of the commander in chief Spanish War Veter of the United Spanish War Veterans one or two dismounted bronze ans for badges.

cannon captured during the late War with Spain, to be used bythe said United Spanish War Veterans for the purpose of furnishing official badges of the order: Provided, That no expense shall be caused to the United States through the delivery of said cannon.

PNrooveixspo.ense.

Approved, February 25, 1911.

1458

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES. 13-16 . 1911 .

February 27, 1911. [H. J. Res. 276.]

[No. 13. ] Joint Resolution Modifying certain laws relating to the military records

of certain soldiers and sailors.

[Pub. Res., No. 63.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Military records. Proviso in laws cor- States of America in Congress assembled, That in all laws approved

rpeecntsiinogn,snoatptpolpireedvefnotr during the Sixty-first Congress having for their object the removal

after passage.

of disabilities accruing from defective records in the military or naval

service of the United States, the words " Provided, That, other than

as above set forth, no bounty, pay, pension, or other emolument shall

accrue prior to or by reason of the passage of this Act " shall not pro-

hibit or prevent the granting of a pension on an application made after

the approval of this Act, and accruing only from the date of said

application.

Approved, February 27, 1911.

March 1, 1911.

[No. 14. ] Joint Resolution Providing for the filling of a vacancy which will

[H. J. Res. 145.] occur on March first, nineteen hundred and eleven, in the Board of Regents of the

(Pub. Res., No. 64.] Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than Members of Congress.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United tuStmioint.hsonian Insti- States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy in the Board
John B. Henderson, of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other than jr. , appointed Regent. Members of Congress, which will occur on March first, nineteen hun-
dred and eleven, by the resignation of the Honorable John B. Henderson, to take effect on that date, be filled by the appointment of Mr. John B. Henderson, junior, of the city of Washington.
Approved, March 1 , 1911.

March 3, 1911.

[No. 15.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the Secretary of War to receive for

[H. J. Res. 291.] instruction at the Military Academy at West Point Mr. Melchor Batista, of Cuba.

[Pub. Res., No. 65.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

CuMbeal.chor Batista, of States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

May be admitted to be, and he hereby is, authorized to permit Mr. Melchor Batista, of Military Academy. Cuba, to receive instruction at the Military Academy at West Point :

Provisos. No expense, etc.

Provided, That no expense shall be caused to the United States thereby and that the said Melchor Batista shall agree to comply with all regu-

lations for the police and discipline of the academy, to be studious,.

and to give his utmost efforts to accomplish the courses in the various Oath and service. departments of instruction : And provided further, That in the case

p.R2.2S7..,secs. 1320, 1321, of the said Melchor Batista the provisions of sections thirteen

hundred and twenty and thirteen hundred and twenty-one of the Revised Statutes shall be suspended.

Approved, March 3, 1911 .

March 4, 1911.

[ No. 16. ] Joint Resolution Providing for commission to investigate cost of

[S.J. Res. 147.] transporting and handling second class mail.

[Pub. Res., No. 66.]

Second-class mail. Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Commission created States of America in Congress assembled, That the President shall

thoanidnlviensgti, geattc.e cost of appoint three competent and impartial persons, one of whom shall be

Ante, p. 1334.

a judge of the Supreme Court of the United States and the other two

of whom shall hold no office, and no one of whom shall be connected

with the Postoffice Department or have any interest in any business directly or indirectly affected by the publishing of magazines or news-

papers using the mails of the United States, to examine the reports of the Postoffice Department and any of its officers, agents or em-

ployees, and the existing evidence taken in respect to the cost to

SIXTY-FIRST CONGRESS. SESS. III. RES. 16-19. 1911.

1459

the Government of the transportation and handling of all classes of second class mail matter which may be submitted to them, and such evidence as may be presented to them by persons having an interest in the rates to be fixed for second class mail matter, to make a finding inRgespaonrdtfoifndpinrgosc.eedof what the cost of transporting and handling different classes of such second class mail matter is to the Government and what in their judgment should be the rate for the different classes of second class postal matter, in order to meet and reimburse the Government for the expense to which it is put in the transportation and handling of such matter, and on or before December first to make report of their proceedings and findings to the President for transmission to Congress: Provided, That the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars is hereby PArpopvriospor.iation for appropriated to pay the expenses of such commission, including com- expenses. . pensation to the members thereof, to the necessary secretaries, stenographers, and other incidental expenses, and such compensation may be awarded to the Federal official member of the commission, anything in the existing law to the contrary notwithstanding.
Approved, March 4, 1911.

[No. 17.] Joint Resolution Authorizing the printing of one hundred thousand March 4, 1911.

copies of the Special Report on the Diseases of the Horse.

(H.J. Res. 286.]

[Pub. Res., No. 67.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed and HoDrissee. ases of the

bound in cloth one hundred thousand copies of the Special Report on Revised edition of

the

Diseases

of

the

Horse,

the

same

to

be

first

revised

and

brought

to

special report dered printed.

on,

or-

date under the supervision of the Secretary of Agriculture; seventy Distribution.

thousand copies for use of the House of Representatives, thirty

thousand copies for use of the Senate.

Approved, March 4, 1911.

[ No. 18. ] Joint Resolution Authorizing the printing of one hundred thousand

March 4, 1911. [H.J. Res. 287.]

copies of the Special Report on the Diseases of Cattle.

[Pub. Res., No. 68.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Diseases of Cattle. States of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed and Revised edition of

bound in cloth one hundred thousand copies of the Special Report on sdpeerceidalprrienptoerdt. on, orthe Diseases of Cattle, the same to be first revised and brought to date, Distribution.

under the supervision of the Secretary of Agriculture, seventy thousand

copies for use of the House of Representatives and thirty thousand copies for use of the Senate.

Approved, March 4, 1911 .

[No. 19.] Joint Resolution For the appointment of members of the Board of

March 4, 1911. [H.J. Res. 294.]

Managers of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers.

(Pub. Res., No. 69.]

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That Honorable Z. D. Massey DiNastaibolnaeld HVoolmunetefeorr

and Captain Lucian S. Lambert be, and they are hereby, appointed as SoAldpipeorisn. tment of Z. members of the Board of Managers of the National Home for Disabled D.Massey and Lucian

Volunteer Soldiers of the United States; Honorable Z. D. Massey to 8of. LMaamnabgeerrtso. n Board succeed Walter P. Brownlow, deceased, whose term of office would

expire April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, and Captain

Lucian S. Lambert to succeed Thomas J. Henderson, deceased, whose

term of office would expire April twenty-first, nineteen hundred and fourteen .

Approved, March 4, 1911.

INDEX.

2222222222

A.

Page. | Abstracts ofDecisions ofGeneral Appraisers, Page.

weekly publication of, directed ......

101

"A. B. Wolvin," Steamer,

Academies, etc.,

change of name authorized..

234 on free list, books, etc., for; limit..

74



Abandoned, etc., Property Claims,

philosophical apparatus, etc., for........ 78

jurisdiction of Court of Claims to hear and

Academies, Scientific and Literary,

determine ....

1139 on free list, publications issued by..

73

return of proceeds to owner.

1140 Accidents on Railways (see also Railway Acci-

statutes of limitations removed..

1110

dents),

Abandoned Merchandise,

appropriation for securing, etc., reports on. 720

from sunken vessels, in American waters,

Accounting and Cost of Work, Navy,

may be brought in, free of duty... 88 direct and indirect charges to be included .. 1267

rights of underwriters to, etc., not affected by repealprovisions of Tariff Act... 105

to be shown in money accounts; reports

to Congress..

1267

underwriter recognized as consignee of,
imported... Abandoned Military Reservations,

Accounting andCost of Work Offices,

91 appropriationfor establishing at navy yards

and stations..

607

appropriation for surveying, etc.... 741, 1417 Accounting Officers ofthe Treasury,

deficiency appropriation for sale, etc...... 1326

Abandoned Wife or Child, D. C.,

moneys paid by order of juvenile court for

support to be covered into the Treas-

ury; disbursements...

403

Abandonment ofImported Perishable Articles,

permitted if over 10 per cent of invoice

damaged.

102 .

not liable to duty...

102

Abbeville, S. C.,

appropriation for public building...................... 1364

Abell, Park C., et al.,

may bridge Mattawoman Creek at Indian

Head, Md..

1086

Aberdeen, Miss.,

terms of court at..

1116

Aberdeen, S: Dak:,

terms of court at..

1124

Aberdeen, Wash., appropriation for public building.......

1364 .

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

692

Abilene, Kans.,

construction of public building author-

ized at......

681

Abilene, Tex.,

terms of court at...

1126

Abingdon, Va.,

terms of court at..

1128

Abita River, La., preliminary examination of, to be made... 671
Abortion,

8888888888

importation of drugs, etc., for causing un-

lawful, prohibited .

86

entry forbidden; seizure, etc..

86

punishment for aiding, by officials..

86

procedure for seizure, etc.....

86

Abrasives,

duty on iron or steel grit, shot, and sand

for....

24

Abrasives, Artificial,

duty on crude...

66

Absaroka National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

deficiency appropriation for paying claims,

certified by..

219,808, 1320

directed to allow from militia allotment to

States, etc., expenses of maneuvers

with Army in 1908...

329

readjustment of stoppages, etc. , from paymentsto Army officers for exercise of

higher command between April 26,

1898, and March 18, 1907....

1039

to reopen accounts of volunteer officers of

the Navy, war with Spain....... 1266

Accounts and Records, Treasury Department,

appropriation for investigations, etc., to secure better administrative meth-

ods of...

493, 1195

deficiency appropriation for investigation,

etc., to secure better administra-

tion of..

204

Acetic Acid,

duty on..

12

anhydrid ...

12

Acids,

duty on acetic..

12

anhydrid .

12

boracic.....

12

chromic.....

12

citric...

12

gallic....

12

lactic..

12

not specially provided for..

12

oil ofvitriol..

12

oxalic ..

12

pyroligneous ..

12

ricinoleic...

14

salicylic....

12

sulpho-ricinoleic,.

14

sulphuric...

12

tannic..

12

tartaric ..

12

on free list, amidosalicylic..

74

arsenic, or arsenious ...

71

benzoic ....

71

carbolic ..

fluoric...

22ZEEEEE SEEK

Absecon Creek, N. J., preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Absecon Inlet, N. J., preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Absinthe,

duty on.

40

hydrochloric..

iron or steel drums for shipping, returned

from abroad...

72

metanilic...

74

muriatic........

71

nitric.......

71

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-94

j

ii

INDEX .

Acids -Continued .

Page.

on free list, nitropicric..

71

phosphoric...

71

phthalic..

71

picric.....

71

prussic...

Bilicic ..

71

sulphuric, for agricultural purposes; re-

taliatory duty.

80

valerianic...

71

Aconite,

on free list......

71

Acorns,

duty on, prepared as coffee substitute..... 39

on free list, raw, unground....

71

Actors, Alien Professional,

contract labor exclusion not applicable to.. 264

Actual Market Price,

ad valorem duties to be assessed on, in

principal markets of country from

whence exported....

101

meaning of...

101

Actual Market Value ofImported Merchandise,

appraisers, etc., to ascertain, etc., in coun-

try whence imported.

97

ascertainment of, when goods not sold in

open market, etc..

98

determination of...

98

cost at place of production to be ascertained

by appraising officer if unable to ob-

tain market value....

97

Ad Valorem Duties,

to be assessed on actual market value or

wholesale price in principal markets

of country from whence exported .... 101

Adding Machines,

appropriation for, in office of Auditor for

Post Office Department.....

489

Addison, W. Va.,

terms of court at; room required............... 1129 Additions to Entries,

permitted by consignee, etc.....

95

Adjutant-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for contingencies, depart-

ment headquarters, etc.

244, 1037

for pay of officers; longevity.

247, 1041

Adjutant-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc..

501, 1203

for rent...

504, 1206

Administration of Customs Laws,

appropriation for securing information to

assist in..

703, 1363

deficiency appropriation for securing infor

mation, etc., relating to maximum

and minimum rates in..

119

employees authorized to secure informa-

tion for...

'83

Administration ofOaths,

by officers of departments in investigations

of frauds, etc..

898

Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Reve-

nue-Cutter Service .

899

Administrative Methods, Treasury Depart-

ment, appropriation for investigations, etc., to

secure better... deficiency appropriation for..

493, 1195 204

Admiralty Business, United States Courts,

district courts always open for motions,

etc., in.....

1088

Admiralty Jurisdiction,

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

sive of State, in civil causes of.. 1161

Admission of New States (see Arizona, and´ New Mexico).

3855 22
8888

Adulterated Foods, Drugs, etc.,

Page.

appropriation for expenses, preventing sale,

etc., of...

432, 1255

Adulterated Insecticides, etc.,

prevention of manufacture, shipping, etc.,

of...

331

Advertising, D. C., appropriation for general... for notices of taxes in arrears...

381, 974 381, 974

Aeroplanes, etc., Army, appropriation for; limit....
Affidavits, acceptance of, in lieu of invoices; condi-
tions...

1038 . 92

African Slave Trade, International Bureaufor

Repressing,

appropriation for annual contribution to. 342, 1032

Agar-Agar,

duty.on..

14

Agate,

duty on articles of, not specially provided

for....

21

on free list, unmanufactured

71

Agate Bay, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 657,947

Agent,

declaration to be made by, with invoice of

goods actually purchased.

93

not actually purchased .

93

punishment for false..

95

Agreements, Interstate Commerce,

filed by carriers with Commission, to be

preserved as public records.

555

Agreements under Tariff of 1897, Reciprocal

Commercial,

notice oftermination of, to be given foreign

countries....

83

Agricultural Associations,

exempt from corporation tax..

113

Agricultural College, Colorado State,

sale of public lands to State for...

847

Agricultural Department (see Department of

Agriculture).

Agricultural Drills,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty..

71

Agricultural Entries on Coal Lands,

provisions for; reservation of coal rights... 583

Agricultural Exhibition, International,

deficiency appropriation for participation

in, at Buenos Aires.....

203

Agricultural Experiment Stations Office, De-

partment ofAgriculture,

appropriation for salaries...

437, 1261

for general expenses..

437, 1261

for administrative expenses.

438, 1262 .

for stations, Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico,

and Guam....

438, 1262

for reports on farmers' institutes... 438, 1262

for nutrition investigations..

438, 1262

for irrigation investigations.

438, 1262

for drainage investigations....

439, 1263

Agricultural Planters,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty..

71

Agricultural Products and Provisions,

Schedule G, Tariff of 1909...

35

Agricultural Report,

appropriation for printing and binding . 765, 1447

Agriculture, census schedules relating to persons en-

gaged in, etc....

4,227

irrigation acreage added .

227

Agriculture, Department of(see Department of Agriculture).

INDEX .

iii

Agriculture, International Institute of, appropriation for payment of quota, etc. deficiency.appropriation for quota....
Agriculture of the United States,
census of,to be taken in 1910, etc.... schedules of inquiries.. irrigation acreage added .

Page. 343, 1032
774
1 4, 227
227

census of, to be taken in 1915 and every

10 years after...

10

certified copies of census returns of, may

be furnished States, etc.....

10

schedules of cattle, etc., slaughtered for food, and all hides produced... · 228

Aids to Navigation (see also Lighthouses,

Beacons, Fog Signals, etc.),

appropriation for Alaskan waters...

1431

additional, authorized ....

534

relief vessel for general service..

534

additional post lights for rivers, etc...

534

first district; Otter Island, Me., light and

fog signal...

534

Boon Island, Me., fog signal..

534

Monhegan Island, Me., light and subma-

rine signal buoy.

535

(Becond district; Lovells Island depot, Mass., changed to Governors Island. 535

third district; Hunts Point, N. Y., light

and fog signal station....

535

Hudson River, N. Y., at mouth of Rond-

out Creek, light and fog signal sta-

tion.....

535

Stony Point reservation, roads, etc. 535

fourth district; Edgemoor dépot, Del., im-

provements..

535

Miah Maull station, Delaware Bay, limit

of cost increased..

535

Cross Ledge station, N. J., discontinued . 535

Joe Flogger Shoal station, limit of cost

increased...

535

Eagle Point, N. J., range lights.

535

fifth district; Baltimore, Md., Fort Mc-

Henry Channel, range lights..

535

Norfolk, Va., harbor range lights.

535

Bogue Sound, N. C., range lights.

535

sixth district; Savannah River, Bloody

Point range lights.....

536

Cape Fear River, below Wilmington,

N. C., lights and signals.

536

light vessel, mouth of Saint Johns River,

Fla.

536

eighth district; Port Eads depot, La.,

removed to New Orleans...

536

light vessel, Galveston Bay, Tex., loca-

tion changed...

536

ninth district; light vessel, White Shoal,

Lake Michigan, moved to Indiana

Shoals.....

536

Saint Joseph -depot, Mich., barge...

536

light vessel, North Manitou Island, Lake

Michigan..

536

tenth district; Lorain, Ohio, range lights.. 536

Huron, Ohio, range lights....

536

light vessel, Lake Erie, Point Abino, and

Sturgeon Point..

536

Sandusky, Ohio, barbor entrance, light

and fog signal station...

536

eleventh district; Detroit depot, Mich., oil

house...

536

Lake Superior, Michigan and Gull

islands, light and fog signal station.. 536

twelfth district; Anacapa Island, Cal., light

and fog signal station...

536

Army Point, Cal., light and fog signal

station....

536

Aids to Navigation-Continued.

Page.

twelfth district, Humboldt Bay, depot,

Cal., coal shed ...

536

· Point Loma, Cal., fog signal, etc ....

537

Santa Cruz, Cal., light and fog signal

station ...

537

thirteenth district; Eliza Island, Belling-

ham Bay, Wash., light and fog signal

station..

537

Battery Point, Wash., light station, limit

of cost increased .

537

Alaskan waters, additional aids in..

537

construction, etc., contracts authorized ..: 537

restriction on changing stations of vessels

repealed...

537

authorized in Detroit River to mark Liv-

ingstone Channel..

931

provisions for Bureau of Lighthouses......... 537 Aitkin County, Minn.,

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

in...

180

Alabama,

assigned to fifth judicial circuit ...

1131

investigation of portion of southern bound-

ary line directed .

844

Alabama Indians in Texas, investigation, etc., of condition of........
Alabama Middle Judicial District, counties composing northern division.. southern division . terms of court.. judge for, to serve in northern district....
Alabama Northern Judicial District,
counties composing northeastern division. northwestern division... middle division......... southern division . eastern division... western division....
terms of court...
judge for middle district to serve in......... to reside at Birmingham...
deficiency appropriation for salary ofjudge. Alabama River, Ala.,

274
1106 . 1106 1106 1087
1105 1105 1105 1105 1105 1105 1106 1087 1106 125

appropriation for improvement of; ex-

tension permitted ..

646, 942

preliminary examination to be made of, for

lock and dam between Montgomery

and Selma .

955

Alabama Southern Judicial District,

counties composing southern division ..... 1106

northern division .

1106

terms of court...

1106

Alabama, Tennessee and Northern Railroad

Company,

may bridge Noxubee River, in Noxubee

County, Miss..

178

Alabaster,

duty on, monuments, etc.........................

21

Alameda, Cal.,

appropriation for public building......... 1364 Alamo National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 425, 1247 Alaska,

appropriation for salaries, government

in...

500, 1202

for contingent expenses..

500, 1202

for military cable and telegraph

lines....

245, 1038

for constructing military roads, etc.,

in....

257, 1052

service of retired officers as road com-

missioners, authorized ...

1052

for native pupils brought to Indian

schools...

271, 1060

iv

INDEX.

Alaska- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for surveying and marking boundary with Canada ......... 343, 1033

for relief of shipwrecked American sea-

men in...

346, 1036

for emergency mail service in .

361

for star route mail service in; emer-

gencies....

1333

for mail equipments for.

362, 1334

for agricultural experiment stations. 438, 1262

for surveyor general, clerks, etc.... 517, 1219

for surveys in....

741, 1417

office expenses allowed .

1417

for inspecting coal mines, etc. , in .

742

for care of insane persons..

744, 1420

for education of natives..

744, 1420

restriction on expenditures..

744

under Commissioner of Education .

744

for reindeer stations, etc.

744, 1420

for protection of game..

745, 1420

for suppressing liquor traffic among na-

tives..

1420

for incidental expenses, court offi-

cials.....

748, 1425

fortraveling expenses, court officials. 748, 1425

for miscellaneous court expenses.... 750, 1427

for lighting waters of..

754

for aids to navigation in waters of.

1431

for salmon fisheries...

763

for protecting seal fisheries in.

763

for protecting seal fisheries, etc. , in . *1389

for hospitals for temporary detention of

the insane at Fairbanks and Nome;

contracts, etc ..

852

deficiency appropriation for investigating

mineral resources of.......

212, 890

for traveling expenses, court officials... 214

for incidental expenses, court offi-

cials .....

214, 1310

for support of reindeer. for contingent expenses...

222, 810 226

for exhibit of, Lewis and Clark Exposi-

tion, Oreg....

810

for repairs to courthouse, Fairbanks.. 1311

for education of natives..

1323

additional aids to navigation in waters of,

authorized ...

537

cases in which appeals and writs of error

are allowed direct to Supreme

Court.from district court of.

1158

discriminations against wearers of United

States uniforms by theaters, etc.,

in, a misdemeanor; penalty..

963

fur seal, etc., regulations...

326

included in census of 1910 ..

1

mineral lands, time extended for filing

adverse claims, etc...

459

miner's labor lien provisions..

848

open season for game birds extended to

entire Territory.

1360

right of way, etc., to Controller Railway

and Navigation Company, Control-

ler Bay, Bering River, etc.

1360

time extended for building Alaska Short

Line Railroad.

459

white slave traffic provisions applicable to. 827

Alaska Criminal Code Amendments,

SEC. 173.-Punishment for unlawful kill-

ing offur-bearing animals in Alaska;

regulations...

327

SEC. 176.- Pribilof Islands declared a

special government reservation .... 327

punishment for landing on, etc ...........

327

SEC. 177.-Unauthorized killing of seals on

Pribilof Islands, unlawful...

327

privilege to natives for food, etc ..

327

Alaska Criminal Code Amendments-Cont'd. Page.

SEC. 178.-Killing female or young seals

unlawful ; exception ....

328

any seal in waters adjacent to Pribilof

Islands, or on rocks, etc...

328

punishment for............

328

Alaska District Court,

appellate jurisdiction of ninth circuit

court of appeals in cases from.... 1134

to be heard in San Francisco, Portland,

or Seattle...

1135

Alaska Fisheries Division, Fisheries Bureau,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc.

1439

for fur seal fisheries, agents, etc..

1439

for salmon fisheries, agent, etc..

1439

for wardens, etc..

1439

Alaska Fur Seal Fisheries,

appropriation for agents, etc..

763, 1439

for protecting.

711, 1389, 1441

Alaska Salmon Fisheries,

appropriationfor agent, inspectors, etc. 763, 1439

for protecting..

1441

Alaska Short Line Railway and Navigation

Company,

time extended for constructing railroad

by.

459

Alaska- Yukon-Pacific Exposition,

deficiency appropriation for additional

electrical equipment......

130

refund of erroneous charge for engraving

and printing....

206

Alaskan Seal Fisheries,

appropriation for protecting..... 711, 1389, 1441

for salaries of agents, etc............ 763, 1439

for food, etc., to natives...

763

killing of fur seals on Pribilof Islands un-

der regulations of Secretary of Com-

· merce and Labor...

326

confined to officials and natives.

326

limited to adult males...

326

sealskins to be sold by Secretary of Com-

merce and Labor; proceeds....

326

subject to future treaty provisions..

326

employment of natives...

327

killing fur-bearing animals in Alaska pro-

hibited .

327

penalty; forfeiture of vessels, etc....... 327

regulations for permitting ..

327

special authority for fur seals ..

327

Pribilof Islands declared a special reserva-

tion...

327

landing, etc., on, unlawful.

327

punishment for..

327

killing seals on, unlawful; exception.. 327

use of firearms, etc. , prohibited...

327

allowed for food, etc., to natives; re-

strictions....

327

female and young seals; exception ... 328 in adjacent waters, on beaches, etc.. 328

punishment for; forfeiture of ves-

sels, etc...

328

hunting, etc., fur seals in Pacific Ocean

unlawful...

328

appointment of additional officers, agents,

and employees authorized .

328

purchase of present leases for sealing on islands of Saint Paul and Saint

George ..

328

maintenance of depots, etc.

328

food, clothing, etc., to natives..

328

inconsistent laws repealed..

328

appropriation for expenses..

328

Alaskan Waters,

additional aids to navigation authorized

in..

537

appropriation for...

1431

INDEX .

22 2285

Albany, Ga.,

Pago.

appropriation for public building....

703

terms of court at.......

1109

Albany, N. Y.,

terms of court at...

1119

Albany, Oreg.,

appropriation for public building......... 1364

Albata,

duty on..

29

Albemarle and Chesapeake Canal,

purchase of, authorized as part of waterway, Norfolk to Beaufort Inlet.... 640

Albemarle Sound, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way from Norfolk, Va., to....... 640; 938 Albemarle Street NW., D. C.,
deficiency appropriation for extending.... 783 Albert Champion Company,

deficiency appropriation for refunding cus-

toms duties to...

1295

Albion, Mich.,

appropriation for public building...

1364

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

686

Albumen,

duty on, egg or blood .............

36

on free list, not specially provided for........... 71 Albumenized Paper,

duty on..

62

Albums, Photograph, etc.,

duty on .

64

Albuquerque, N. Mex.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 278, 1067

for public building.......

1364

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

Alburg, Vt.,

bridge authorized across Lake Champlain,

Swanton to....

1358

Alcohol (see also Spirituous Liquors),

duty on amylic .

14

medicinal preparations containing.

16

withdrawal allowed in tanks, etc., from

distilleries free of tax for Govern-

ment use...

1014

Alcohol, Denatured,

appropriation for chemists, etc., office of

Commissioner of Internal Reve-

nue ..

491, 1193

Alcohol, Domestic, drawback allowed of internal-revenue tax

paid on, used in preparations ex-

ported ...

90

Alcoholic Compounds,

duty on, not specially provided for...................... 12

Alcoholism, International Congress on,

appropriation for expenses of delegates,

etc ..

1034

Alden, C. E.,

deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

Ale,

duty on.

41

ginger..

41

Alexander, R. B.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 127

Alexandria, La.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, electric current ....

889

terms of court at.......

1114

Alexandria, Va. ,

terms of court at..

1128

Alien Prostitutes (see White-Slave Traffic

Act).

Alienation Restrictions,

appropriation for removing, from Five

Civilized Tribes allottees ..

281

Aliens (see also Naturalization of Aliens), Page.

appropriation for medical inspection of

immigrant....

716, 1394

deficiency appropriation for naturalization

of....

812, 814

for paying State institutions, for care of

deported...

1312

accorded reciprocal rights to prosecute

claims in Court of Claims...

1139

certificates of citizenship may be issued in

certain cases without proof of decla-

ration of intention...

831

classes excluded admission into United

States ..

263

exceptions ..

264

deportation of prostitutes, etc.

265

jurisdiction of district courts in suits by,

for tort only, in violation of treaty,

etc...

1093

under laws regulating immigration of... 1093 Aliens, Insane,

widows, etc., of, making homestead entry,

may complete naturalization with-

out declaration of intention .....

929

Alizarin,

duty on, assistant...

14

on free list..

71

dyes......

71

Alkali-Resistant Crops,

appropriation for breeding, etc.................... 422,1243

Alkalies,

duty on, not specially provided for.................... 12

Alkaloids,

duty on, not specially provided for.............

12

on free list, cinchona bark......

78

Allegheny River, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of; open-

channel work ..

638

for improvement of; Dam No. 3....

638

bridge_authorized across, in Armstrong

County, Pa..

179

preliminary examination of, to be made

for locks and dams ..

-953

Allen, Amos L. , late a Representative in Con- ·

gress,

deficiency appropriation for legal heirs of.. 1317

Alliance, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building..

1365

acquiraiuntghosriitzeedf.o.r. public building at, 690

Alliance, Ohio,

appropriation for public building ........ 1365 Alligator Creek, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of waterways between Charleston and .... 643, 948

Allison, William B., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to neph-

ews and nieces...

802

Allotments in Severalty to Indians (see also Lands in Severalty to Indians),

annual statement of cost of work for, to

be made .

270

Alloway Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of ...... 636,936 Alloys,

duty on nickel ..

31

substitutes for tool steel ...

23

Alma, N. C.,

bridge authorized across Lumber River

between Lumberton and.................

178

Almonds,

duty on.

38

on free list, oil of.

.8

Almshouse, D. C., (see Home for Aged and

Infirm, D. C.).

vi

INDEX .

2222

Alpaca Hair,

Page.

classification of, under Tariff Act ....... 52

Alpena, Mich.,

appropriation forimprovement of harbor. 654, 946

for public building...

1365

limit of cost increased , public building .. 678

Altamaha River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 643, 939 preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Alter Road, Detroit, Mich.,

granted to Detroit for a public highway;

reversion ......

235

Althea, on free list, root, etc., unmanufactured .... 77

Alton, Ill. ,

appropriation for public building .

703

Alum, Alum Cake, and Patent Alum,

duty on .

Alumina, duty on, hydrate of... sulphate of..

Aluminous Cake,

duty on . Aluminum,

duty on, alloys, etc ..

29

leaf.

manufactures of,notspecially provided for 33

Amarillo, Tex.,

appropriation for public building .

1365

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized......

688

terms of court at...

1126

Amaryllis Bulbs,

duty on..

37

Ambassadors, appropriation for..............

.... 337, 1027

Ambassadors, etc.,

exclusive jurisdiction of Supreme Court in

allowable suits against....

1156

original jurisdiction of Supreme Court in

suits by...

1156

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

sive of State, in suits against, or their

domestics ....

1161

Amber,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for..

69

on free list......

72

oil.....

77

Ambergris,

on free list..

72

crude and rectified oil...

77

Amberoid, Unmanufactured,

on free list..

72

Ambrose Channel, New York Harbor, appropriation for maintenance of.. for improvement of..

635, 935 729

Amendment to the Constitution,

proposed, authorizing Congress to levy

taxes on incomes..

184

American Ephemeris, Nautical Almanac and,

appropriation for preparing.......

509, 1211

American Ethnology,

appropriation for continuing researches

in ....

718, 1395

American Fisheries,

on free list, fish oil and other products of.. 77 American Historical Association,

appropriation for printing and binding an-

nual report..

769, 1447

American Landscapes, etc.,

duty on views of...

64

American National Red Cross,

punishment for unauthorized use of name

or emblem...

604

control of endowment fund .

604

822

2,

American Republics, International Bureau of, Page.

appropriation for expenses...

342, 1032

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of new building..........

203

American Seamen, Shipwrecked,

appropriation for life-saving testimonials

for rescuing..

340, 1031

for relief and protection of, in foreign

countries, etc.....

346, 1036

American States, Fourth International Confer-

ence of,

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

representation at..

203

for transporting delegates, etc., to....

775

use ofArmy transport to convey representa-

tives to, authorized ; expenses.............. 877

American Vessels,

articles for repair of, in foreign trade, may be withdrawn from bonded ware-

house free of duty...

88

importations prohibited unless in, or ves-

sels ofcountry of production...

87

not applicable to countries having no

similar provision....

87

Amidonaphtolsulfoacids,

on free list, and their sodium or potassium

salts...

74

Amidosalicylic acid,

on free list...

74

Amite River, La.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 647

Amite River, La. and Miss.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 671

Ammonia,

duty on carbonate of......

12

liquid anhydrous..........

12

muriate of...

12

on free list, sulphate of...

72

Ammunition, Army,

appropriation for small arms, etc.. 260, 1056

for firing morning and evening gun.. 260, 1056

for small-arms target practice, etc.... 260, 1056

for issue to institutions, etc ..

260, 1056

for blank, for troops at maneuver camps. 261

for mountain, etc., cannon....

597, 1341

for seacoast cannon...

597, 1341

for seacoast artillery practice........ 597, 1342

for field, etc., artillery practice ..... 597, 1342

for seacoast cannon, insular posses-

sions...

598, 1343

Ammunition, Navy,
appropriation for procuring, etc. for smokeless powder.....

611, 1270 611, 1271

for procuring, etc., for issue to ships.. 611, 1271 Amoy, China,

appropriation for purchase of land for con-

sulate....

347

Amsterdam, N. Y., appropriation for public building............................ 1365

Amylic Alcohol,

duty on...

14

Anacapa Island, Cal., light and fog-signal station authorized at.. 536
Anacostia and Potomac River Railroad Com-

pany, D. C., to relocate tracks in B Street SW.......... 977

Anacostia River Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for operating expenses.... 387, 978 Anacostia River, D. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 639, 937

condemnation of land for road along bank

of.......

353

appropriation for expenses.

354

deficiency appropriation for...

1297

report, etc., to be made on proposed canal

to Chesapeake Bay from ..

956

INDEX .

vii

Anacostia River Flats, D. C.,

Page | Animal Industry Bureau, Department ofAgric Pago.

appropriation for reclamation and develop--

ment....

1005

Anadarko, Okla.,

grant of tract of land to, for municipal pur-

poses...

837

sale oftract to; description...

.837

payment; reservation for Indian ceme-

tery..

837

option to Anadarko Commercial Club... 837

Anahuac Channel, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 650, 944

Anatomy, Preparations of,

on free list..

79

culture- Continued.

appropriation for equipping, etc., bureau

experiment station ...

420

for experiment farm, Beltsville, Md .. 1240

for buildings, experiment station, and

farm...

1240

for administrative work..

420,1240

for animal feeding and breeding.. 420, 1240

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses..

223

for meat inspection ..

223, 812, 814

for salaries and expenses

811

Animal Objects.

Anchors, duty on iron or steel, and parts........

duty on, immersed in alcohol, not specially

22

provided for..

12

Anclote River, Fla.,,

appropriation for improvement of.

645

Andersonville National Cemetery, Ga.,

gift of land for, accepted from Woman's Re-

lief Corps..

230

Andirons,

duty on.

26

Angel Island Immigration Station, Cal.,

deficiency appropriation for equipping............ 216

for construction, etc..

800

Angeles National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance,. etc., of. 425, 1247

Angell, James B.,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution...........

1453

Angles, Iron or Steel,

duty on.....

22

Aniline,

on free list, arseniate of.......

72

oil....

77

salts..

72

Animals, Diseased.

fences permitted along international

boundary lines to keep out...

440

Animals, Live,

duty on, not specially provided for..

35

on free list, for breeding, temporary exhibition, competition, etc., bond ...... 72

registered pure bred; certificates, etc. ,

required ..

72

teams of, etc., of immigrants.

72

wild, for exhibition, etc.

72

regulations to be made for free entry of,

straying across frontier, etc....

72

Anise Seed,

on free list..

79

oil..

77

Ann Arbor, Mich., appropriation for bublic building..... 1365

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

680

22 22 2 2

Animal, hair fabrics classified as woolen.....
on free list, carbon.......

Annapolis, Md. (see Naval Academy).

55 "Annapolis," U. S. S.,

73 appropriation for repairs..........

621

hair, unmanufactured, not specially pro-

Annatto,

vided for......

76 on free list..

72

integuments, etc., crude., etc., not spe-

extracts of.

72

cially provided for...

73 Anniston, Ala.,

Animal Diseases,

appropriation for public building...

1365

appropriation for preventingspread of, from

enlargement of public building at, au-

one State to another.

420, 1239

thorized ...

679

Animal Feeding and Breeding,

terms of court at.

1106

appropriation for cooperative experiments

Annuities, Indian Tribal,

in.

420, 1240 commutation of, Sacs and Foxes, Okla.

Animal Husbandry,

and Iowa...

289

appropriation for investigations and experi-

Pottawatomies, Kans. and Wis...

289

ments in..

420, 1240 Anoka, Mich.,

Animal Industry Bureau, Department ofAgri-

appropriation for public building...... 1365

culture,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc..... 419, 1238

thorized..

690

for architects, inspector's assistants, etc. 1238 Ansonia, Conn.,

for messengers, laborers, etc..

1238 open space requirements for public build-

for general expenses..

419, 1239

ing reduced...........

207

. preventingspread ofpleuropneumonia,

Antelopes,

tuberculosis, etc., from one State to

hunting, etc., in Arizona prior to March 1,

another....

420, 1239

1913, aTerritorial misdemeanor..... 912

for inspection and quarantine work.. 420, 1239 Anthoss Oil,

admission of tick-infected cattle from

on free list.

77

Mexico into Texas below quarantine

Anthracin Dyes,

line ....

1240 on free list..

71

for quarantine stations, Baltimore and

Anthracite Coal,

Boston ..

1240 deficiency appropriation for refunding

for eradication of southern cattle

duties on...

... 219, 1321

ticks...

420, 1240 Antietam Battlefield, Md.,

for dairy investigations and experi-

appropriation for repair, preservation,

ments ..

420,1240

etc...

723, 1400

for animal husbandry experiments .. 420, 1240

for superintendent.

for animals' diseases investigation; sta-

Antifriction Balls, etc.,

tion, Bethesda, Md.......

420, 1240 duty on iron or steel..

723, 1400 22

viii

INDEX .

Antigo, Wis.,

Page.

appropriation for public building.

1365

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

692

Antimony,

duty on, metal or regulus...

29

ore or matte; determination of..

29

oxide of.

29

Antiquities, and Artistic Copies of, on free list, by societies, etc., for exhibi-

tion, not for sale; conditions ....

81

Antiquities, Artistic,

on free list, produced more than 100 years

before importation ...

82

Antitoxins, etc.,

appropriation for testing, for treatment of

domestic animals..........

420, 1239

Antitrust Cases,

precedence given to, of public importance. 854

certificate of Attorney General to secure

hearing at earliest practicable day.. 854

composition of court; filling vacancies... 854

divisions of opinion; assignment of addi-

tional círcuit judge .

854

reargument to be heard.

854

Antitrust Laws,

appropriation for expenses, enforcing.. 748, 1425

jurisdiction of district courts under...

1093

Anvils,

duty on iron and steel..

25

Apache, etc., Indians, Ariz. and N. Mex.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 272, 1062

Apache Indian Reservation, Okla., allotments to children born since June 5,
1906, from pasture reserve lands.... 861
time extended for payments due by homesteaders on ceded lands of ....... 266

Apache Indians, etc., Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of, from

tribal funds ..

280, 1069

sale of unallotted , etc. , lands on reser-

vations of...

1069

Apache National Forest, Ariz., appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

Apalachicola Bay, Fla., appropriation for improvement of... 644, 941

preliminary examination of, to be made for

deep-water harbor ..

669

Apalachicola Customs District, Fla.,

Saint Joseph Bay transferred from Pensa-

cola district to ..

897

Apalachicola River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of...

645

for improvement of channel to Saint

Andrews Bay from...

645, 941

for improvement of, Chipola River, etc.. 941

bridge authorized across,between Pensacola

and River Junction ....

233

Apatite,

on free list.

*72

Apia, Samoan Islands, appropriation for investigation of claims for losses from naval operations at.. 1034

Appalachian Exposition Company,

loan of tents, etc., to:

883

Appalachian Watersheds (see Conservation of

11986

Navigable Waters).

Apparatus ,

on free list, life-saving

76

platinum, for chemical uses.

78

Apparatus, Philosophical and Scientific,

on free list, for temporary exhibition, etc.,

not for sale; conditions...

81

Apparel, Theatrical,

on free list, for temporary exhibition ; limi-

tations ...

78

2220

Appeals and Writs of Error,

Page.

cases in which, are allowed to Supreme

Court direct from district courts ... 1157

from circuit courts of appeals.

1157

Appeals, Court ofCustoms, appropriation for salaries and expenses. 530, 1234
Appeals, United States Courts, expenses of proceedings in, diminished; transcripts of records, etc., to be filed 901

Apple,

duty on stocks, etc., of.

37

Apples, duty on, green or ripe.
Appleton, Wis., appropriation for public building.
Appliancesfor Disabled Soldiers, appropriation for...

37 1365 731, 1407

Appliances, Miners' Rescue,

on free list.

77

Appointments Division, Post Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, clerks, etc..

..... 520, 1222

Appomattox River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 640, 730

Appoquinimink River, Del., appropriation for improvement of...... 638, 937
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 953
Appraisement of Imported Merchandise (see Customs Administration).

Appraiser of Merchandise, Customs, at San Francisco, Cal. , salary increased.. 894
Appraisers, Customs, to ascertain actual market value and

993

wholesale prices of goods, etc., in

country whence imported..

97

cost at place of production if market

value not ascertainable .

97

determination of....

97

Appraisers, General (see Board of General Appraisers),

Appraisers' Stores, New York City,

franchise accepted, pneumatic-tube serv-

ice, from customhouse...

120

Appropriations (see also Deficiency Appro-

priations),

appropriation for preparing statement

of....

766, 1443

for urgent deficiencies.

203, 888

for deficiencies..

119, 774, 1289

for the support of the Army . for the Indian Service .....

243, 1037 269, 1058

for Military Academy.

312, 1015

for Diplomatic and Consular Service.. 337, 1027

for the postal service.

355, 1327

for the District of Columbia..

374, 966

for Department of Agriculture.

416, 1235

for legislative, executive, and judicial ex-

penses..

468, 1170

for fortifications.

596, 1343

for the naval service.

605, 1265

for river and harbor improvements..... 630, 933

for sundry civil expenses..

703, 1363

for pensions...

842, 1085

for condemnation expenses, extension of

Park Place NW., D. C.

200

extension of Franklin Street NE., D. C.. 200

extension of Newton.Place NW., D. C .. 201

extension of Belmont Road NW., D. C.. 232

extension ofWaterside Drive NW., D. C. 232

extension of R Street SE., D. C.

232

extension of Twenty-third Street SE.,

D. C...

232

extension of Forty-first Street NW.,

D. C ..

240

extension of Columbia Road NW., D. C. 242

INDEX .

ix

Appropriations-Continued.

Page.

for condemnation expenses, extension of

Military Road NW., D. C.......

242

extension of Princeton Place NW., D.C. 325

extension of Nineteenth Street NW.,

D. C....

373

extension of Massachusetts AvenueNW.,

D. C....

585

extension of Reno Road, D. C...

888

extension of Thirteenth Street NW.,

D. C.......

925

extension of Van Buren Street NW. ,

D. C...

1078

extension of Seventeenth Street NE., D. C....
opening road on banks of Anacostia River, D. C...
widening First Street NE., D. C... widening Park Road NW., D. C.. for expenses of Thirteenth Census.. for expenses issuing new Panama bonds..

1347
354 466 888
1. 117

for House of Representatives, 1st session,

61st Congress...

182

for purchasing school sections Cheyenne

River and Standing Rock Reserva-

tions, S. Dak. and N. Dak., in-

creased.

196

for expense of appraising, etc., lands of

Cheyenne River and Standing

Rock Reservations, S. Dak. and

N. Dak....

196

for folding speeches and pamphlets,

Senate ..

243

for memorial monument, Fort Recovery,

Ohio ..

311

forexpenses of Alaskan seal fisheries, etc.. 328

for appraisement of damages, property of

Sarah Edwards, changing grade,

Union Station, D. C..

336

for credit in accounts of assistant, treas-

urer, Boston, Mass ..

348

for expenses, townsites, allotments to

.children, etc., Yakima Reserva-

tion, Wash...

349

for road from Harrisonville, N. J., to Fort

Mott, and Finns Point national .

cemetery.

350

for raisingwreck of "Maine" from Habana

Harbor, etc....

353

for expenses, disposing Siletz Indian Res-

ervation, Oreg., reserved lands.. 368

for per capita Sac and Fox Indians, Rich-

ardson County, Nebr..

368

fordrainage assessment Sac and Fox lands. 368

for drainage assessments Omaha Indian

lands, Richardson County, Nebr... 369

for expenses, Commission of Fine Arts.. 371

for school sections to South Dakota, in

Pine Ridge Reservation..

443

for expenses appraising, etc., unallotted

lands, Pine Ridge Reservation, S.

Dak...

443

for school sections to South Dakota, in

Rosebud Indian Reservation..

451

for expenses appraising, etc., unallotted

lands Rosebud Indian Reservation,

S. Dak..

451

forschool sections to North Dakota, in Fort

Berthold Indian reservations..

458

for appraising, etc., unsurveyed lands Fort Berthold Reservation, N. Dak... 458

for expenses of election and convention in

"New Mexico .....

568

for expenses of election and convention in

Arizona..

578

Appropriations- Continued.

Page.

for commission to assess damages to prop-

erty of William Frye White, change

ofgrade, Union Station....

582

for burial, etc., of two Chippewa Indians

ayingin Washington..

582

for field guns, etc., returned by Massachu-

setts ..

603 .

for expenses establishing postal savings

depository business..

818

for assistants to clerks of courts in naturali-

zation cases, September 27, 1906, to

June 30, 1907 .

830

for credit to reclamation fund .

835

for expenses of certificates of indebtedness

for advances to reclamation fund........ 835

for probation officers D. C......

865

for paying overtime claims ofletter carriers. 865

for expenses, joint Congressional commit-

tee investigating disposal of public

lands..

871

for removing ice gorges in Ohio River............. 873

for paying accrued interest to Winnebago

Indians, Nebr. and Wis....

873

for special election in Hawaii on question

of prohibition...

878

for protecting lands from overflow of Colo-

rado River....

883

for commission to investigate employer's

liability and workman's compensa-

tion.....

884

for replica of Von Steuben statue to be pre-

sented to German Emperor.....

886

for expenses, etc., Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission..

898

for heirs of Julian G. Baker..

918

for expenses, carrying relief to sufferers

from famine in China..

919

for cooperation with States to protect

watersheds from forest fires....

961

for survey, acquirement, etc., of lands at

headwaters of navigable streams;

annual.....

961

for expenses of National Forest Reservation

Commission..

963

for memorial and aid to centennial cele-

bration of Perry's victory on Lake

Erie, at Put-in-Bay Island,

1081

for appraisement of damages, etc., property

of John B. Lord, change of grade

Union Station, D. C .....

1345

property of Margaretha Weideman, etc.,

eliminating grade crossings, D. C.... 1347

for refunding canceled entry notice fees to

registers of land offices....

1351

for reestablishing, etc., boundary line between Texas and New Mexico...... 1455

for expenses commission on second-class

mail matter..........

1459

indefinite, for expenses of issuing, etc.,

certificates of indebtedness....

192

permanent indefinite, for refunding excess

customs charges..

103

permanent, for paying on order of judge unclaimed money in registry of the
court deposited in the Treasury.. 1084

permanent indefinite, repealed, for re-

fining and parting bullion....

1292

permanent, repealed, shipping commis-

sioners..

773

Steamboat-Inspection Service..

773

statement of, 1st sess., 61st Cong., to be in-

cluded in 2d sess...

127

unexpended balances of, for essential river andharborworks, notto be covered in 182

X

INDEX .

Apricot Kernels, .

Page.

duty on..

38

AqueductD,.D.C.)C.. (see Washington Aqueduct,
Aquia Creek, Va., preliminary examination of, to be made.... 675
Aransas Harbor Terminal Railway Company,
time extended for bridging Morris and Cummings Channel, Aransas Pass,

by......

1359

Aransas Pass and Bay, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of...

730

Aransas Pass Channel and Dock Company, may bridge Morris and Cumming Channel,

Aransas Pass, Tex..

324

Aransas Pass, Tex.,,

appropriation for improvement of....... 648, 943

for improvement of channel to Corpus

Christi from..........

650

for deep-water harbor at Harbor Island;

contracts authorized ; conditions.... 943

bridge authorized across Morris and Cum-

ming Channel at.....

324

preliminary examination of, and tributary

waters, to be made...

675

time extended for bridging Morris and

Cummings Channel at..

1359

Arapaho National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

Arapahoe and Cheyenne Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 280, 1069

Arapahoe Indian School, Okla.,

sale of lands, authorized, for Masonic

orphanage...

190

Arapahoe Indians, Mont., Northern Cheyenne

and,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 277, 1066

for line riders....

277, 1066

"Arayat," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.....

621

Arbitration, International Bureau of Permanent Court of,

appropriation for annual contribution.._342, 1032

Arbitration of Differences of Railway Em-

ployees,

appropriation for expenses of.......... 719, 1397
deficiency appropriation for expenses of... 782 designation of member of Interstate Com-

merce Commission to act in............

1397

Arbitration of North Atlantic Fisheries,

message and documents relating to, ordered

printed .....

1456

Arbitration, Parliamentary Union for Pro-

moting International,

appropriation for contribution to bureau.. 345

Arcadia, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 946 preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Archers Creek, S. C.,. preliminary examination of, to be made... 675
Archers Hope River, Va.,. preliminary examination of, to be made... 675
Architect, Supervising (see Supervising Architect of the Treasury).
Architects, contracts for full architectural services

allowed successful, in competitive

plans for public buildings..

699

Ardmore, Okla.,

appropriation for public building..

1365

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

687

terms of court at..

1122

"Arethusa," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.....

1280

Argenta, Ark.,

Page.

appropriation for public building...

1365

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

688

bridge_authorized across Arkansas River,

Little Rock to..

930

Argenta Railway Company,

may bridge Arkansas River, Little Rock to

Argenta, Ark......

930

Argentine, duty on.
Argentine Republic, appropriation for minister to........
for secretary of legation............. Argols,
duty on..

29
337, 1027 337, 1028
12

Arid Lands (see also Carey Act), temporary withdrawal from entry, pending applications by States or Territories. 237
Arizona,

appropriationfor salaries, government in 500, 1202 for contingent expenses.. ........ 500, 1202

for legislative expenses..

500, 1202

for support, etc., of Indians on reserva-

tions in...

272, 1062

for survoyor general, clerks, etc...... 517, 1219

deficiency appropriation for incidentals,

Indian Service in....

222, 226

for prosecuting Indians in..

224, 227, 1327

for contingent expenses, surveyor gen-

eral's office...

226, 1323

appellate jurisdiction of circuit courts of

appeals, in judgments of supreme

court.

1134

cases in which writs of errorand appealsare

allowed to Supreme Court from

supreme court of..

1158

Douglas, may issue bonds for waterworks.. 290

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended .....

904

leave of absence allowed .

904

hunting, etc., antelopes in, prior to March

1, 1913, a misdemeanor..

912

levy of Territorial taxes for 1912 author-

ized; rate limited ...

911

estimate of expenditures for 1912; rever-

sion of amount not needed; supply-

ing deficiencies

911

extension to 1912, ofappropriations for 1910

and 1911 ...

912

special expenditures for 1912 not affected 912

road act, continued for 1912.

912

amendment to Territorial law..

912

Lowell Observatory granted lands in Co-

conino National Forest....

452

Arizona Judicial District,

created; courts........

576

assigned to ninth circuit..

576

judge, attorney, marshal.

576

terms of court..

576

Arizona, State of,

provisions for admission of..

568

constitutional convention ; delegates..

568

apportionment ; qualification of voters.. 568

reregistration ; acceptance of register of

1908; regulations...

568

application to all elections...

568

proclamation of governor for election.. 569

conduct of election; Territorial laws appli-

cable; qualifications..

569

meeting of convention; duties..

569

constitution; general principles; religious

freedom ..

569

polygamy and giving liquor to Indians

prohibited .

569

INDEX .

xi

Arizona, State of-Continued. constitution; general principles; disclaimer of right to public, and Indian, lands. equality of taxation; lands of Indians not in reservations.. assumption of Territorial debts.. invalid bonds excepted..
provision for public schools..
right of suffrage; knowledge of English.. capital at Phoenix till 1926..
acquiescence in reclamation projects.... liquor prohibition on opened Indian
reservations....

Page.
569
569 570 570 570 570 570 570
570

consent to conditions of land grants to

State.....

570

changes in foregoing prohibited..

571

submission to the people..

571

time for election ; returns...

571

certificate of rejection; reassembling of

convention ....

571

action on new constitution..

571

submission to the President and to Con-

gress...

571

notification of approval....

571

proclamation for election of officers;

time......

571

convention to provide for election of offi-

cers ..

571

election; returns, etc..

572

certification of result..

572

admission as State by President's procla-

mation.....

572

service of Territorial officers..

572

no legislative session in 1911 ..

572

public lands, additional grants for common

schools...

572

selection in lieu of mineral lands, etc.. 572

restriction on indemnity selections... 572

in national forests...

573

in lieu ofgrants to new States; universi-

ties; State buildings....

573

asylums; penitentiaries, etc..

573

miners' hospitals, normal schools,

charitable, etc., institutions...

573

agricultural colleges, etc.; annual

appropriations contínued .

573

school of mines, military institutes ... 573

bonds of certain counties....

573

balance to common schools..

573

control of schools, etc...

573

sectarian prohibition..

574

use of 5 per cent fund for common schools. 574

lands and proceeds to be held in trust..

574

disposal for other purposes a breach of

trust..

574

mortgages forbidden..

574

sales and leases to highest bidder; adver-

tisement....

574

sales of timber, etc.; short leases..

574

appraisal and sales; minimum price.... 574

irrigable lands.....

574

relinquishment for reclamation' projects;

líeu selections...

574

waterpower reservations; lieu selections.. 575

separate funds of proceeds; investment,

etc ...

575

irregular sales, etc., void ..

575

enforcement of laws; rights of State and

citizens.....

575

commission to select granted lands; sur-

veys..

575

Territorial grants continued to State... 576

pending litigation....

576

judicial district created; in ninth circuit.. 576

judge, attorney, marshal; clerks; terms.. 576

Arizona, State of-Continued.

Page.

judicial district created; jurisdiction; de-

termination of pending appeals and

writs of error....

576

succession of courts..

576

transfer of Federal cases............................

577

other cases.....

577

pending proceedings not abated ..

577

determination of State cases..

577

transfer to circuit court of appeals .

577

suits not begun before admission.

578

State substituted for Territory in Federal

cases ..

578

assembling of legislature....

578

certifying election of Senators and Repre-

sentative

578

operation of State government..

578

Territorial laws continued; United States

laws.....

578

appropriation for election and convention

expenses....

578

expenditures under direction of Sec-

retary ofthe Interior .

579

Arkadelphia, Ark., appropriation for public building....................... 1365

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .....

688

Arkansas,

assigned to eighth judicial circuit..

1131

right of way granted for pipe lines through

public lands in....

296

applications to be filed..

296

use restricted.............

296

forfeiture for nonuser, etc..

296

violating antitrust laws .......

296

Arkansas City, Kans.,

appropriation for public building..

1365

acquiringsite and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

685

Arkansas Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing eastern division........... 1107

northern division....

1107

Jonesboro division...

1107

western division....

1107

terms of court.. Jonesboro....

1107 . 603

commissioners given jurisdiction over all

violations, Hot Springs Reservation. 1086 Arkansas National Forest, Ark.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 Arkansas River,

appropriation for construction of dredging

plant....

651, 945

for improvement of; maintenance.... 651, 945

bridge authorized across, Little Rock to

Argenta, Ark.....

930

Pine Bluff, Ark...

601

Van Buren to Fort Smith, Ark..

229

changes allowed in building bridge across,

at Dardanelle, Ark.

189

Arkansas Western Judicial District,

counties composing Texarkana division... 1106

Fort Smith division..

1106

Harrison division.................................................

1106

terms of court..

1107

transfer of certain criminal cases to Fort

Smith division..

233

fees of clerk to be paid by United

State...

234

Arlington, National Cemetery, Va.,

appropriation for burial of indigent sol-

diers, etc. , at......

723, 1400

interment of bodies from wreck of "Maine "

in......

353

mast to be used as monument..

353

xii

INDEX .

Arlington, Va.,

Page. | Army-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for agricultural experimental

farm....

423, 1243

Armament ofFortifications, appropriation for...
Armor and Armament,

597, 1341

appropriation for female nurse corps; pay

established; allowanceforservice be-

yond the States; cumulative leaves. 249

for veterinarians; longevity....

249, 1042

for dental surgeons...

249, 1042

appropriation for vessels authorized, in-

for contract surgeons...

249, 1042

crease of the Navy...

629, 1288

contracts to lowest responsible, etc.,

for paymasters' clerks and messengers 249, 1043

travel expenses....

249, 1043

bidder...

629, 1288

for courts-martial, etc., expenses.... 249, 1043

purchases from trust combinations,

etc., forbidden..

1288

for officer in charge, public buildings

and grounds, D. C ..

249, 1043

Armories (see Arsenals and Armories). Arms, Pay Inspector F. T.,

for commutation of quarters, officers. 249, 1043 for travel allowance, enlisted men on

credit in accounts for suspended Navy ra-

tion money allowances..

1353

discharge...

249, 1043

for undrawn clothing, enlisted men.. 249, 1043

Armstrong County, Pa.,

for interest on soldiers' deposits.... 249, 1043

bridge authorized across Allegheny River,

in...

179

for translator, etc., military information

division ...

249,1043

Army, appropriation for support ofthe... for all contingencies ..

243, 1037 243, 1037

for expert accountant..

249, 1043

for extra-duty pay, enlisted men, engineer, etc., service, seacoast fortifica-

for Army War College..

243, 1037

chief of Division of Militia Affairs to be

detailed from generals of the line ... 1037

tions ....

249, 1043

for extra-duty pay, switchboard opera-

tors at interior posts ......

250, 1043

forcontingencies,military information 243, 1037

for military service schools..

244, 1037

leaves of absence to instructors..

244

for extra- duty pay, Alaska telegraph

system .

250, 1043

for mileage, officers and contract sur-

for contingencies, military departments,

etc ..

244, 1037

for coast artillery school..

244, 1038

geons...

.... 250, 1043

for 10 per cent, officers on foreign serv-

ice...

250, 1043

for Signal Service expenses .

245, 1038

for Washington-Alaska cable, etc .... 245, 1038

for 20 per cent, enlisted men on foreign

service ...

250, 1043

for pay of line officers.....

245, 1039

allowance of claims for exercise of

higher command ; restriction..

1039

for longevity pay, line officers.. 245, 1039

for computer, artillery board..

250, 1043

for loss by exchange, disbursements

abroad and Alaska...

250, 1043

for subsistence, etc. , national guard offi-

for pay of enlisted men.. for longevity...

245, 1039 245, 1039

cers attending service schools ... 250, 1043 foradditional pay, first reenlistments. 250, 1043

horseshoer and farrier to each troop of

cavalry..

245

for allowance, officers and enlisted men dying in line of duty............ 250, 1043

horseshoer to each battery of field

artillery

245

for additional pay to officers furnishing

their own mounts ..

250, 1043

for enlisted men, Engineers..... 246, 1039

for Jennie Carroll and Mabel H. La-

for enlisted men, Ordnance..

246, 1039

zear.

250, 1044

for quartermaster-sergeants .... for commissary- sergeants..

246, 1039 246, 1039

for pay, Porto Rico Regiment of Infan-

try.

250, 1044

for enlisted men, Signal Corps.. for enlisted men, Hospital Corps.
service school detachment...

246, 1040 246, 1040
1040

for pay, Philippine Scouts..

250, 1044

all above to be accounted as Pay ofthe

Army:..

251, 1044

for clerks, messengers, etc., at head-

quarters, etc..

246, 1040

for encampments of militia with Regu-

lars..

251, 1044

for pay of staff officers; Adjutant-General's Department; longevity.... 247, 1041

reimbursement to Frank M. Rumbold,

pay to Missouri militia.......

1044

Inspector-General's Department; lon-

gevity....

247,1041

Engineer Corps ; longevity ..

247, 1041

Ordnance Department; longevity.. 247, 1041

for equipment of coastartillery, Organized

Militia....

1045

details of officers as instructors on

request of governors .

1045

Quartermaster's Department; longev-

ity...

247, 1041

Subsistence Department; longevity 248, 1041

filling vacancies, etc., détached officers. 1045

increase of officers Quartermaster's

Department....

1045

Medical Department; longevity... 248, 1041

for Subsistence Department; supplies 251, 1045

Pay Department; longevity..

248, 1042

Judge - Advocate - General's Depart-

ment; longevity......

248, 1042

Signal Corps; longevity.

248, 1042

meals to competitors in national rifle

match..

1046

for payments; commutation of rations 251, 1046 civilian employees; extra-duty pay 252, 1046

Bureau of Insular Affairs; longevity 248, 1042 additional assistant authorized ....... 248
forretired pay, officers ; longevity .... 248, 1042

printing, etc.; care of supplies..... 252, 1046

payment for supplies furnished to

other bureaus, etc.; prices .

1047

for pay of retired officers on active serv-

ice; longevity..

248, 1042

for Quartermaster's Department; regular

supplies ..

252, 1047

for retired pay, enlisted men....... 248, 1042

for hospital matrons .....

249, 1042

for female nurse corps, Superintendent,

nurses....

249, 1042

heat and light to quarters, etc..... 252, 1047

post bakeries; ice machines; laundries;

schools, etc.

252, 1047

forage; stationery.

252, 1047

1

INDEX.

xiii

Army-Continued.

Page. | Army- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for Quartermaster's Depart-

appropriation for Engineer Department;

ment; printing; use of ice machines,

school, Washington, D. C.; restric-

etc ...

253, 1047

tion ...

259, 1055

for equipment of post schools ... 253, 1048

for equipment of troops.

260, 1056 260, 1056

for incidental expenses.

253, 1048

for services .

extra-duty pay; furniture, etc ..... 253, 1048

for contingencies in the Philippines. 260, 1056

horse expenditures...

253, 1048

payment of pressing obligations from

for horses; limit; purchases at post... 254, 1049

available balances; condition ..... 1056

restriction on breeding; standard.. 254

for Ordnance Department; current ex260, 1056

purchase of horses from officers ordered

penses... for ammunition for small arms.

260, 1056

abroad, etc ..

254 forfiring morningand evening gun.. 260, 1056

land in Virginia as training, etc., farm . 1049 1049

for small-arms target practice; marks-

contracts; purchases at posts... 1049

men's medals, prizes, etc....... 260, 1057

restriction on breeding; standard.............

issue to institutions, etc.

261, 1057

enlisted men for remount depots...... 1049

forbarracks and quarters...

254, 1049

extra-duty pay..

255, 1049

for blank ammunition for maneuver

camps ofinstruction ..

261

formanufacture, etc., ofarms.

261, 1057

civilian employees; limitation..... 255, 1049

sale to Cuba authorized ..

261

chapels at Fort Yellowstone and Fort

Sam Houston...

1050

for issue of standard automatic pistols, etc., for Organized Militia; exchange

for post exchanges..... limit for construction..

255, 1050 255

for transportation . on land-grant roads .. draft animals, wagons, etc.....

255, 1050 256, 1050 256, 1051

vessels, transport service, etc.. .: 256, 1051

to Revenue-Cutter Service, etc..

1051

ofammunition, etc.

1057

for .repairing and preserving ordnance

stores..

261, 1057

for ordnance stores.

261, 1057

for Infantry, etc., equipments. ...... 261, 1057

for equipping State Coast artillery or-

ganizations .

261

transportation of merchandise to

transfer of land, Fort Marion, Fla., to

Guam .

256, 1051

use for official duties by officers .

1051

Saint Augustine..

1057

for annual rifle contests, trophy, medals,

suspensions for hire of motor vehicles

etc ...

261, 1058

removed....

1051

for purchase, etc. , of automatic rifles. 261, 1058

boats for harbor and seacoast artillery

written contracts required ....

261

service....

256, 1051

for Field Artillery material to Organized

transfer of transport "Ingalls ".

256

Militia...

1058

for roads, walks, wharves, and drainage

promotion of officers to grade lost by

at military posts....

257, 1051

for waterand sewers at military posts. 257, 1051

water supply Fort D. A. Russell and

Fort Meade ...

1052

for roads, bridges, and trails in Alaska. 257, 1052

retired officers as road commissioners.. 1052

for shelter in the Philippines..... 257, 1052

for clothing, camp and garrison equi-

page .

257, 1052

indemnity for destroyed clothing.. 257, 1053

for post hospitals, construction, repair,

etc..

258, 1053

Fort Missoula, Mont..

258

Fort H. G. Wright, N. Y..

258

Fort George Wright, Wash..

258

Walter Reed General Hospital, D. C.. 258

for quarters for hospital stewards..... 258, 1053

regimental promotion system in

force prior to October 1, 1890 ...... 1058

forMilitary Academy..

312, 1015

for fortifications.............

596, 1343

for armories and arsenals .

720, 1397

for pensions....

842, 1085

formilitary posts..

721, 1398

for disposition of remains of officers, sol-

diers, etc ..

723, 1400

deficiency appropriation for expenses

Brownsville investigation..... 122, 789

for extra pay to board on eligibility of

discharged colored troops for reen-

listment..

122

for Signal Service.....

210, 220, 790, 1321

wireless telephone..........

1301

for Subsistence Department..

210,

220, 790, 809, 1300, 1321, 1326

forshooting galleries and ranges. Fort Bliss, Tex .. Sparta, Wis... Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo .
for Army War College....

258, 1053 258 258 258
258, 1053

for Quartermaster's Department..

210,

220, 225, 789, 809, 813, 1321, 1326

for Military Academy .

210, 790, 1302

for pay, etc ..... 220, 225, 809, 1300, 1321, 1326 for mileage to officers and contract sur-

for payment of suspended, etc. , accounts of transportation of officers' author-

geons...

220, 225, 809

for mileage to officers traveling without

ized horses...

1053

troops ..

220

forMedical Department;supplies, etc. 258, 1053

for officers' transportation...

220

preventing spread of epidemics........ 259, 1054

for militia encampments...

220, 809, 1321

employees, etc... Hot Springs, Ark., Hospital..

259, 1054 259, 1054

for recruiting expenses . for Ordnance Department.

220,809 220, 1321

forMedical Museum; library...

259, 1054

for care ofinsane Filipino soldiers..

259

Dental Corps authorized; appoint-

ments, etc....

1054

for pensions... for Medical Department .
for transportation .. forsuppressing Indian hostilities..

223, 1324 790, 1321
809 813

for care of insane Filipino and Porto

for Broadway Bargain House .

889

Rican soldiers....

1055

for John S. Kissinger...

1300

for Engineer Department; expenses, for Wesley A. Stuart . 1 etc... 259, 1055 for Capt. William T. Wilder... 1330000

xiv

INDEX.

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Maj. William B. Roch-

ester

1300

for Col. John L. Clem .

1300

for Maj. G. G. Bailey

1300

for Capt. Louis F. Garrard..

1300

for clothing, and camp and garrison equi-

page

1321

' for national cemeteries...

1321

for Engineer School, D. C.....

1321

additional pay for officers or enlisted men

dying in service available for bene-

ficiaries ..

123

appointment authorized of Warren C.

Beach, captain of Infantry, retired;

no pay, etc.

910

Frank de 1. Carrington, major, retired.... 600

articles of war; position of officers of Organized Militia when different corps.

happen to join ....

234

rank and precedence of officers of Organized Militiaon duty with otherforces. 234

limited service article repealed....

235

commission of five officers to examine and

report on advisability of permanent

maneuvering grounds near Chicka-

mauga Park..

1457

proposed donation of lands for militia

maneuvering encampment, etc .... 1457 convicts limited to actual subsistence in

military prisons..

210

credit directed of accounts disallowed to

States, etc., for participation of Or-

ganized Militia in Army maneuvers,

etc ..

123

discharges allowed in real names to minors

enlisting under assumed ...

824

extended to War with Spain and Philip-

pine insurrection.....

824

Engineer Corps, number ofofficers..

957

filling of vacancies, etc..

957

issue of tents, etc. , to earthquake sufferers

in Costa Rica....

367

lineal rank corrected of certain Artillery

officers ..

202

Medical Reserve Corps, retirement allowed 580

to have credit for all active Army service. 1348

militia expenses injointencampments, etc. ,

not to be paid from appropriations

for.....

329

Nahant, Mass. , coast defense reservation,

sale of strip of land on..

1348

officers detailed on investigations may ad-

minister oaths .

899

officers on retired list, to receive commis-

sionsforadvanced rank.

347, 1354

to be dropped from rolls if absent three

months without leave, etc.

894

penaltyfordiscriminating by theaters, etc.,

against wearers of uniform of........

963

Quartermaster's Department, additional

officers

1045

retirement with full pay, etc., of David

Robertson, hospital corps.

1345

return offield guns from Massachusetts.. 602

appropriation for.....

603

restriction on receiving back articles sold

to militia...

603

sale of tracts of land Dauphin Island, Ala.,

authorized..

1350

tents, etc., to be loaned to Appalachian

Exposition Company, Knoxville,

Tenn ..

883

Confederate Veterans' reunion, Little

Rock, Ark ..

1456

Mobile, Ala..

876

Army- Continued .

Page.

tents, etc., to be loaned to Elks' reunion,

Detroit, Mich ..

885

Grand Army encampment at Salt Lake

City, Utah...

183

use of transport to carry relief for Chinese

famine sufferers...

919

Army Field Engineer School, Fort Leaven-

worth, Kans.,

appropriation for instruction expenses..... 1037

Army Maneuvers, elc.,

participation of organized militia in;

expenses...

329

Army Point, Cal., light and fog signal station authorized at.. 536
Army Posts (see Military Posts).
Army School of the Line, Fort Leavenworth, Kans. ,

appropriation for instruction expenses.. 244, 1037

Teaves of absence to instructors...

244

Army SignalSchool, Fort Leavenworth, Kans., appropriation forinstruction expenses.. 244, 1037

Army Supply Depot, Fort Mason, Cal.,

appropriation for construction of store-

houses, quarters, wharves, etc..... 1399

Army, Union or Confederate,

census inquiries to be made of survivors of. 4

Army War College, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses .

243, 1037

for maintenance..

258, 1053

Arnold, Captain F. T.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts.

778

Arrack,

duty on.

40

Arrangements, Interstate Commerce,

filed by carriers with commission, to be

preserved as public records ..

555

Arrears of Pay, etc., Volunteers,

appropriation for...

736, 1413

for, War with Spain

737, 1413

Arrow Rock, Mo.,

bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 601

Arrowroot,

on free list..

72

Arsenals and Armories,

appropriation for manufacture of arms at,

etc .....

261, 1057

sales to Cuba, authorized.

261

for Augusta, Ga....

720

for Benicia, Cal..

720.

for Frankford, Pa

720, 1397

for Rock Island, 'Ill...

720, 1398

for Sandy Hook,N. J., provingground. 720, 1398

for Picatinny, Dover, N. J.

720, 1398

for Springfield, Mass...

1398

for Watertown, Mass..

720, 1398

for testing machines..

720, 1398

for Watervliet, N. Y..

721, 1398

for repairs, etc...

721, 1398

deficiency appropriation for manufacture

of arms.

1321

Arsenate, Lead (see Insecticide Act).

Arseniate of Aniline,

on free list..

72

Arsenic,

on free list..

72

acid.

71

sulphide of.

72

Arsenious Acid,

on free list...

71

Arson, punishment for mailing, etc., matter inciting...
Art and History, International Exposition of, appropriation for participating in, at Turin, Italy....

1339 ·
345

222

INDEX .

XV

8*8*7*8*.

Art Collections, etc.,

Page.

onfree list, by States, societies, etc., notfor

sale; conditions...

81

produced more than 100 years before

importation..

82

Art, Ornamental or Educational Objects of,

on free list, produced more than 100 years

before importation.....

82

Art Squares,

duty on woolen.....

55

Art, Works of,

on free list, by States, educational societies,

etc., not forsale; conditions....

81

for temporary exhibition, etc., not for

sale; conditions....

81

Arthur Kill, N. Y. and N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of..

636, 936

for improvement of channel, Kill von

Kull to Raritan Bay; contracts.... 636,

728, 1405

for improvement of channel north of

Shooters Island.....

1406

88 88

Articles,

duty on artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair...

60

bead or spangle.

64

cotton, flax, etc., embroidered, etc........

50.

feather, artificial flowers, etc., not spe-

cially provided for....

66

jewelry, gold or platinum...

68

silver, etc.....

67

manufactured, not specially provided

for.....

71

228 NO SESTRARAFIJ E 2 2 8

iron orsteel tin plate, etc., notspecially

provided for

24

marble, etc.....

21

metallic, not specially provided for..

33

not enumerated, similar to enumerat-

ed.

71

paper, lithographically printed....

62

photogelatin printed; notspecially pro-

vided for...

64

raw, not enumerated.

71

silk lace, etc....

60

silver, etc., mesh bags, etc..

67

smokers'...

70

tinsel wire, etc......

30

tile or tiling..

17

toilet....

16

unmanufactured, not enumerated.

71

woolen knitted.......

54

lace ...

54

woven, flax, hemp, ramie, etc., not spe-

cially provided for...

51

on free list, crude, for dyeing or tanning,

not specially provided for...

72

metallic, received as prizes, etc..

77

of American manufacture, etc., returned

from abroad....

72

toilet, of persons arriving in United

States; restriction.....

80

for repair of American vessels in foreign

trade may be withdrawn from ware-

house free of duty...

88

immoral, prohibited importation; seizure,

etc..

86

Articles ofForeign Manufacture,

country of origin to be plainly marked on,

imported..... on packages containing, also contents... required before delivery..

punishment for false labels, etc.................

86

Articles ofPersonal Adornment,

on free list, of persons arriving in United

States; restriction...........

80

32 358

18181885

Articles of War, Army,

Page.

command, when different corps happen to

join...

234

position of officers of organized militia.. 234

rank and precedence of organized militia officers on duty with other forces..
limited service article repealed.......

Artificial, duty on, abrasives, crude.......... cork..
feathers...

flies, baits, etc., fishing..
fruits, grains, flowers, etc... horsehair....

mineral waters....

silk .

Artificial Limbs, etc., appropriation for..

731, 1407

Artificial Waterways,

investigation of feasibility, etc., of pro-

posed......

956

Artillery Board, Army,

appropriation for computer....

250, 1043

Artillery, Chief ofCoast,

appropriation for coast artillery school

under...

244, 1038

Artists, Alien Professional,

contract labor exclusion not applicable to. 264

Artists' Knives,

duty on...

27

Arundel Cove, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of depot, Revenue-Cutter Service, at..... 712, 1389

Asafetida,

on free list..

73

Asbestos,

duty on manufactures of, not specially

provided for......

69

woven fabrics ..

69

on free list, unmanufactured . ......

73

Asbury Park, N. J.,

appropriation for public building...... 703, 1365 limit of cost increased, public building.. 678

Ashes,

on free list, beet-root......

73

wood, and lye of....................

73

Asheville, N. C.,

terms of court at.............

1120

Ashland, Ky.,

appropriation for public building..

1365

acquiringsite for public buildingat, author-

ized .

689

Ashland, Ohio, appropriation for public building ...... 1365

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

691

Ashland, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 656, 947 Ashley County, Ark.,

time extended for bridging Bayou Barthol-

omewat Morrell, Ark..

187

Portland, Ark....

190

Wilmot, Ark..

190

Ashley National Forest, Utah and Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 Ashtabula, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts..

653, 1406

for public building...

703, 1365

contracts for improvement of harbor, au-

thorized; limit..

945

Asphalt, Limestone Rock,

duty on......

18

Asphaltum,

duty on.

18

xvi

INDEX .

Aspic Oil,

Page.

on free list..

77

Assassination,

punishment for mailing, etc. , matter in-

citing..

1339

Assessment and Permit Work, D. C., appropriation for.....

384,975

for paving roadways........

975

deposit of collections....

975

Assessor's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries... for assistant assessors, etc.

375, 968 376, 968

for temporary clerk hire for numerical

books...

968

for furnishing copies of wills, etc., to. 382, 974 Assignments ofSalaries,

permitted officials of Department of Commerce and Labor when in the field . 524
Assistant Attorney-General,

appointment authorized for customs cases;

compensation.....

108

Assistant Attorney-General for the Post-Office

Department,

appropriation for....

522, 1224

for attorneys, clerks, etc., division of. 519, 1221

Assistant Attorney-General, in Customs Cases,

appropriation for, Deputy, attorneys, spe-

cial counsel, etc......

747, 1424

salary established ...

214

Assistant Attorney-General, Interior Department,

appropriation for assistant attorneys,

etc., office of......

512, 1214

duties of board of pension appeals

transferred to office of...

1214

for expenses of inspectors, etc..

512, 1214

Assistant Attorneys, Department of Justice,

appropriation for...

522, 1224

Assistant Attorneys-General, appropriation for..

522, 1224

Assistant Attorneys, United States Courts,

appropriation for, in special cases; foreign

counsel...

750, 1426

deficiency appropriation for, in special

cases .

215,799

authorized for commerce court cases, etc.. 543

payment of, from appropriation for prose-

cution of frauds, etc..

213

Assistant Custodians and Janitors, Public

Buildings,

appropriation for...

714, 1391

furnishing steam for pneumatic tubes,

postal service.

715, 1391

deficiency appropriation for.

219, 808, 1320

Assistant to the Attorney-General,

appropriation for....

522, 1224

Assisted Emigrants, Alien,

admission excluded .

264

exception, in transit to contiguous coun-

try..

264

Associated Executive Committee of Friends on

Indian Affairs, land in Otoe and Missouria Indian Reser-

Ivation, Okla., granted to, for religi-

ous, etc., purposes ..

859

payment, etc.

859

Association for the Measurement ofthe Earth, International Geodetic,

appropriation for payment of quota.... 342, 1032

Association of Navigation Congresses, Permanent International,

appropriation for expenses of proposed

meeting, etc ..

667

Associations, Joint Stock, excise tax levied on net incomes of.............. 112

Assumed Names, Army and Navy,

Page.

discharges in true names allowed to per-

sons serving as minors under, in wars

of the rebellion, with Spain, and in

the Philippines...

824

Astilbe Clumps,

duty on.

37

Astoria, Oreg., Customs District,

territory..

579

port of entry, Astoria..

579

officers and residence..

580

Astrophysical Observatory, appropriation for maintenance..
for printing and binding for.

718, 1396 768, 1447

Atchafalaya Bay Ship Channel Company, contract authorized with, for 20-foot chan-

nGeullff.r.o.m Morgan City, La., to the 648

Atchafalaya River, La.,

appropriation for improvement of, Morgan

City to the Gulf..

648

contract for 20-foot channel authorized.... 648

examination, etc., to be made on perma-

nently separating waters of, from the

Mississippi.....

658

post lantern lights authorized in.................

534

Atchison, Kans.,

appropriation for improvement of Missouri

River; cooperation of city....

661

bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 905

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Com-

pany

granted right of way across Fort Leaven-

worth Military Reservation, Kans.. 875

may bridge Missouri River, Sibley, Mo .. 239

removal of existing bridge.

240

Athens, Ga.,

terms of court of.............

1109

Athens, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.....................

703

Athol, Mass., appropriation for public building...................... 1365

Atlanta, Ga.,

appropriation for penitentiary, construc-

tion...

747, 1423

for penitentiary, maintenance. ... 752, 1428

sale of old public building and site to city

authorized; conditions....

703

term of circuit court of appeals at..

1133

all appellate proceedings in Georgia to be

heard at.

1133

terms of district court at..

1108

Atlanta, Tex.,

appropriation for public building....

1365

acquiringsitefor public building at, author-

ized ..

692

Atlantic Coast,

appropriation for surveys.

756, 1432

Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company,

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ments of Court of Claims to.....

129

Atlantic Fisheries, North,

appropriation for expenses, arbitration of

questions relating to.......

765

Atlar ofRoses,

on free list...

77

Attorney-General,

appopriation for, Solicitor-General .... 522, 1224

for assistant to, Assistants, Solicitors,

attorneys, etc .....

522, 1224

for expenses ofsuits, illegal conveyances, etc., Seminole Indian allotments... 744

for preparing, etc. , Volume 27, Opin-

ions of...

749

for assistants to, in special cases.. 750, 1426

INDEX .

xvii

Attorney-General-Continued. deficiency appropriation for expenses of interstate commerce cases under... authorityof, overjail, etc., District of Columbia, transferred to Commissioners...
authorized to institute condemnation pro· ceedings to secure sites for work-

Page. 799 1003

house and reformatory, District of

Columbia....

122

designated on board of trustees to control,

etc., postal savings depositaries ..

815

distribution of Supreme Court Reports, and

digests by.

1153

Federal Reporter, etc...

1153

duties, approval of parole of United States

convicts...

819

as to corporation surety bonds trans-

ferred to Secretary of the Treasury

from.....

241

may employ special attorneys to assist in

customs cases; pay, etc.

108

member of board on new building for De-

partment...

698

reports from district attorneys of suits

affecting United States required by Solicitor General to be approved by. 294

to appear for United States in cases before

Court of Claims..

1142

to certify important antitrust and inter-

state -commerce cases for prompt

hearings....

854

to control Government business in com-

merce court, etc....

543, 1150

employing special attorneys, etc., au-

thorized .

543, 1150

to institute proceedings for forfeiture of

land grants to railroads on failure to

make deposits, etc......

834

Attorney General, Assistant,

appointment authorized for customs cases;

pay; duties ............

108

Attorney General, Deputy Assistant,

to be appointed by Attorney-General, for

customs cases; pay, etc..

108

AttorneyGeneral's Office (see Department of

Justice).

Attorneys,

employment by Interstate Commerce

Commission authorized ..

555

Attorneys, Department ofJustice, appropriation for, assistants.

522, 1224

deficiency appropriation for, for customs

appeals

214

appointment of four authorized for customs

cases; pay; duties......

108

Attorneys, Special,

employment authorized of, to assist in cus-

toms cases.

108

Attorneys, United States Courts (see also District Attorneys),

appropriation for assistants in special

cases

750, 1426

deficiency appropriation for assistants in

special cases.

125

Atwood, Charles F.,

deficiency appropriation for heirs of...... 1296 Auburn, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building..

1365

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized.

680

terms of court at..

1119

5555

Aubusson Carpets,

duty on.. Aubusson Rugs,

duty on.

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-95

Auditor for Interior Department,

Page.

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc.

488

for, chief clerk and chief of division,

clerks, etc..

1190

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by... 222, 226, 810, 814, 1323, 1326

deputy,, abolished; powers transferred to

chief clerk....

1190

Auditorfor Navy Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc..... 188

for, chief clerk and chief of division,

clerks, etc.

1190

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by... 221, 225, 809, 813, 1322, 1326

deputy, abolished; powers transferred to

chief clerk...

1190

Auditorfor Post-Office Department,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks, etc.... 489

for, assistant and chief clerk, clerks,

etc....

1191

for contingent expenses..

494, 1196

for adding machines

489, 1196

deficiency appropriation for paying claims certified by...... 224, 812, 814, 1325, 1327

deputies abolished; powers transferred to

assistant and chief clerk...

1190

Auditorfor State, elc., Departments,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc..... 489

for, chief clerk and chief of division,

clerks, etc.

1191

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by.....

219,

223, 226, 811, 814, 1324, 1327

deputy, abolished; powers transferred to

chief clerk....

1190

to act as conservator of estates of deceased

citizens transmitted by consular ·

officers .

.i 1083

collection of indebtedness, etc.; dis-

posal of fund .....

1083

Auditorfor Treasury Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc..... 488

for, chief clerk and chief of division,

clerks, etc.

1190

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by... 219, 225, 808, 813, 1320, 1325

deputy abolished; powers transferred to

chief clerk..

1190

Auditorfor War Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc..

488

for, chief clerk and chief of division,

clerks, etc..

1190

for additional pay Isthmian Canal ac-

counts ....

771, 1449

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by... 220, 225, 809, 813, 1321, 1326

deputy abolished; powers transferred to

chief clerk...

1190

to readjust, etc., stoppages on account payments to officers for exercise of

higher command between April 26,

1898, and March 18, 1907.......

1039

Auditor's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries.....

376,969

for disbursing officer, deputy, etc....... 376

Augusta, Ark., bridge authorized across White River at.. 199

Augusta Arsenal, Ga.,

appropriation for oil house...

720

Augusta, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at; cost..

695

contracts authorized ..

695

exchange of site for public building at,

authorized ....

1365

' xviii

INDEX.

Augusta, Ga.-Continued.

Page.

exchange ofsite for public building at, ad-
ditional payment to City for new site. 1365 conditional to the purchase by City of

present building after completion

of new one....

1365

terms of court of.

1109

to· contribute for improvement of Savannah

River....

643

Aurora, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building...

1366

acquiringsite for public building at, author-

ized...

690

Austin, Tex.,

appropriation for public building.....

1366

construction of public building authorized

at; contracts....

693

terms of court at..

1126

Austria- Hungary,

appropriation for ambassador to..
for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary... Austrian Seamen,

337, 1027 337, 1028
338, 1028

appropriation for fees to, detained as wit-

nesses, immigration service......

765

Autograph Albums,

duty on..

64

Automatic Pistols, Army Standard,

appropriation for issue to States, etc., for

Organized Militia.......... ..... .... 1057

exchange of ammunition..

1057

Automatic Railway Train Control,

appropriation for investigating systems

of..

719, 1397

forinvestigating, etc. , use by railroads of. 720

Automatic Rifles, Army,

appropriation for purchase of, etc.; avail-

able for two years..

261, 1058

Automatic Weighing Scales, Customs,

appropriation for... deficiency appropriation for.. Automobile Board, D. C., appropriation for secretary, etc ....

710, 1393 781
972

Automobiles,

.deficiency appropriation for purchase, etc.,

for Speaker...

128

for Vice President..

127, 217

duty on, and parts..

25

Automobiles, D. C.,

license tax on...

379

Avenues, D. C. (see Streets, Avenues, etc. , D. C.).

Aviation, Navy,

appropriation for experiments in develop-

ing...

1268

Awards, Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

deficiency appropriation for paying...... 218, 807

8&NN

Axles,

duty on, for railway wheels.....

29

iron or steel not otherwise provided for.. 25

Axminster Carpets,

duty on...

55

Axminster Rugs,

duty on..

55

Azaleas,

duty on..

36

B.

Back Pay and Bounty, Volunteers, appropriation for....

736, 1413

Back River Branch of Savannah River, bridge authorized across, at Savannah, Ga. 180

Bacon,

duty on.......

38

Bagatelle Balls,

Pago.

duty on, ivory, bone, etc.

66

Baggage of Persons in Transit,

retention by collector, and delivery for

return, without payment of duty.. 104

Baggage, Personal, Sample, and Excess,

facilities for handling, charges, etc., by

carriers to be just and reasonable... 546

Bagging,

duty on jute, etc., for cotton.......

51

Bags,

duty on jute, plain single,yarn fabrics.... 51

leather...

68

parchment paper, etc..

62

precious metals, mesh, etc..

67

on free list, American, returned from

abroad; conditions..

72

Baguio, Philippine Islands, terms of supreme court at, authorized .... 877

Bahama Islands, tonnage duty on vessels from ports in.... 111
Bailey, MajorG. G.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts..

778, 1300

Bailiffs, etc., United States Courts, appropriation for pay..

750, 1427

appointment authorized by marshals for

district court juries, etc....

1088

Bainbridge, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at.....

681

Bainbridge, W. E., deficiency appropriation for widow of.... 120
Baker, James M.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1315 Baker, Julian G.,
appropriation for widow and children of;

punishment for illegal charge by

attorney, etc....

918

Bakersfield, Cal., appropriation for public building...... 1366

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized .

688

Baldwin, W. K.,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursement 775

Ball Bearings,

duty on iron or steel...

22

Balloons, War,

appropriation for......

245, 1038

288 2 2 2

Balls,

duty on antifriction...

22

billiard, etc., of ivory, bone, et.

66

chess ..

66

Balm ofGilead,

on free list..

73

Balsams,

duty on, drugs.....

13

on free list, crude, not specially provided

for....

75

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,

directed to change grade crossing on Q

Street northeast, D. C.....

199

share of expenses, Cedar Street bridge and

subway..

387

Baltimore and Washington Transit Company,

time for completion of tracks into Wash-

ington extended .......

894

Baltimore, Md.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office.

494, 1197

forimprovement of harbor..

639, 937

channel of Curtis Bay...

937

for animal quarantine station ...

1240

forimmigrant station

1366

forrange lights, Fort McHenry Channel. 1431

INDEX .

xix

Baltimore, Md.- Continued.

Page. Bankruptcy Act Amendments Continued. Page.

acquiring site and erecting immigrant

preferred creditors, voidable preferences.. 842

station at, authorized ...

685

judgments added..

842

range lights authorized, Fort McHenry

Channel..

535

concurrent jurisdiction of State courts

for recoveries ..

842

8 2 * * 2 APP P 888 1 2222123

terms of court at...

1114 · liens in good faith for a present considera-

Bamboo,

tion, effect of..

842

duty on, blinds, shades, screens, etc...... 34 compensation of referees, etc., restricted... 842

on free list, inthe rough, cut for umbrellas,

receivers and marshals added..

842

canes, etc.....

81 pending cases not affected .....

842

Band Iron or Steel,

Bankruptcy Proceedings,

duty on.. cotton ties.....

appellate and supervisory jurisdiction of circuit courts of appeals in............ 1134

punched, etc.... Bandings,
duty on cotton, flax, etc.. Bilk . woolen...

22 Banks, Solvent,

deposit of postal savings funds in; interest. . 816

50

distribution to localities ....

816 .

59 Bannock Indians, Idaho, 54 appropriation for fulfilling treaty with. 275, 1063

Bands, duty on cigar, etc. cotton, flax, etc.....

Bar Harbor, Me.,

62 appropriation for breakwater, Mount Desert

50'

to Porcupine Island: contracts ... 630, 933

Bangkok, Siam,

Bar Iron,

appropriation for consul-general....... 338, 1028 duty on.

22

for interpreter to consulate-general.. 339, 1029 Barbed Fence Wire,

Bangor, Me.,

duty on .

24

appropriation for public building.............

704 Bardstown, Ky.,

terms of court at .

1114 construction of public building authorized

Bankhead, John H.;

at..

681

appropriation for services, Inland Water-

Barges, Towboats, etc.

ways Commission.............

667 appropriation for designing and construct-

Banking Corporations,

ing, by Mississippi River Commis-

excepted from voluntary bankruptcy .

839

sion, for experimental use....... 659

involuntary bankruptcy.......

839 Barium,

Bankruptcy,

duty on, and alloys..............................

29

appellate jurisdiction of Supreme Court-

Bark,

from courts of.....

1159 duty on cork, cut in cubes, etc......................

*66

jurisdiction of United States, courts ex-

Cuba, braids, etc......

64

clusive of State, in matters in...... 1161 Bankruptcy Act Amendments,

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.......

34

extra allowance to receivers, etc., for con-

Barks,

tinuing business .....

838 duty on drugs, not edible..

13

ancillary jurisdiction given to courts...

839

extracts of, for dyeing and tanning, not

voluntary bankruptcies, corporations ex-

specially provided for...

13

cluded .

839 on free list, cinchona and other quinine... 73

involuntary bankruptcies, corporations ex-

cork, unmanufactured...

75

cepted ..

839

crude, not edible, not specially provided

liability of officers not affected by bank-

for.....

75

ruptcy of corporation......

839 Barley,

compositions, time when terms may be

duty on.

35

offered .

839

malt.

35

meeting of creditors to consider................ action to await determination . applications for discharge, trustees to be
heard in... grounds for refusal ..

839

pearled, patent, or hulled ..

35

839 Barnesville, Ga.,

appropriation for public building.

1366

839 acquiring site for public building . at,

839

authorized..

689

trustees' authority limited...

840 Barnhart, SamuelL.,

trustees' suits for recovery of property,

deficiency appropriation for refund ofduty. 781

limited...

840 Barracks and Quarters, Army,

authority for closing up estates... compensation of trustees...
in case of composition..........
apportionment among three, etc.. withheld at discretion of court .

840 appropriation for, storehouses, etc..... 254, 1049

840

commutation of fuel or quarters for

840

officers not allowed from this

840

fund .

255, 1049

840

chapels at Fort Yellowstone and Fort

receivers and marshals...

840

Sam Houston.

1050

in case of composition.. when acting only as custodian . notice to creditors...

841

for shelter in the Philippines.... 257, 1052

841

for construction of quarters for hospital

841

stewards..

258, 1053

for continuing business .... in case of composition.. notice to creditors...
notices to creditors to be given by mail . matters specified..... of applications for discharge..

841

for construction, etc., seacoast defenses.. 721

841

for replacing, Philippine Islands...

721

841

for seacoast defenses, Philippine Islands

841

and Hawaii..

721, 1398

841

for cavalry post, Hawaii..

721

841 deficiency appropriation for ... 220, 809, 813, 1321

dismissal of petition..... notice to creditors of application before granting......

841 Barre, Vt.,

appropriation for public building...

1366

841 limit of cost increased, public building... 679

XX

INDEX .

Barrel Hoops,
duty on iron or steel, punched, etc ...... Barrels,

Page. 22

duty on, containing citrus fruits.

33

double, for sporting breech-loading shot-

guns and rifles ..

27

empty, of wood ..

33

on free list, American, returned from

abroad

72

Barren River,

bridge authorized across, at Bowling Green,

Ky...

852

Barrington, R. I., may bridge Palmers or Warren River...... 300
Bars,

duty on axle, of iron or steel, not otherwise

provided for..

25

iron ..

22

rolled or hammered , not specially pro-

vided for...

22

iron or steel, cold rolled, etc ..

25

lead ...

30

nickel..

31

steel, and tapered or beveled .

23

on free list, copper, unmanufactured, not

specially provided for .

74

platinum

78

tin ..

80

Barton, Captain John K. , Navy, Retired,

appointment as rear-admiral, retired, au-

thorized ...

352

Bartow, Fla.,

appropriation for public building...

1366

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

689

Baryta,

duty on sulphate of......

15

Barytes,

duty on..

15

earth .

15

sulphate of, artificial.

15

Basic Slaj,

on free list, for manure, ground or un-

ground ....

76

Basin, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building....

1366

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

693

Baskets,

duty on leather..

68

wood, etc., porch....

34

BassBrook, Minn.,

may bridge Mississippi River..................

190

Bass Harbor Bar, Me.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Basswood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.....

33

Bastrop Bayou, Tex., appropriation for improvement of....... 650, 944

Batesville, Ark.,

terms of court at....

1107

Bath, Me.,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage regulations in Kennebec River at.. 712, 1389

for public building.

1366

limit of cost increased, public building.

678

terms of court at..

1114

Bathing Beach, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses; additional

pools ...

389, 980

Batista, Melchor, ofCuba,

admitted to Military Academy for instruc-

tion; conditions, etc..........

1458

Baton Rouge, La.,

made subport of entry New Orleans district 335

terms of court at....

1113

22822228

282

Batteriesfor Ships ofthe Navy,

Page.

appropriation for new sights and modifying

mounts...

611, 1271

for lining and hooping 8-inch Mark V

guns....

611

for fire-control instruments..

611, 1271

for fitting, etc., breech mechanisms .. 1271

for replacing and modernizing guns....... 1271

Battery Point, Wash.,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion .....

1431

limit of cost increased, light and fog-signal

station at...

537

Battle Mountain Sanitarium, Hot Springs,

S. Dak.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home....

735, 1412

Battlement National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 Battleships, First Class,
construction of two, authorized ; cost.. 628, 1287

contracts to have eight-hour restric-

tion .....

628, 1288

under provisions of act of 1884; de-

posit accepted in lieu of indemnity

bond..

628

domestic materials, etc., required.... 628

only one to a bidder; one at a navy

yard .

628

limit of cost for, to be built in navy yards

increased..

1288

Bauxite, or Beaurile,

duty on, crude...

18

refined ..

12

Bay City, Mich.,

terms of court at..

1115

Bay City, Tex.,

appropriation for public building.

1366

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

692

Bay Ridge Channel, New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of...... 728, 1405

Bay River, N. C., .

appropriation for improvement of......................... 641

Bay Rum or Bay Water,

duty on..

40

Bayonne, N. J.,

appropriation for public building.................... 1366

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

690

Bayou Barataria, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in.......................

534

Bayou Bartholomew, La.,.

appropriation for improvement of.......

647

bridge authorized across, in Drew County,

Ark...

179

time extended for bridging, at Morrell,

Ark .

187

Portland, Ark..

190

Wilmot, Ark..

190

Bayou Chastaing, La., preliminary examination to be made of... 955

Bayou Corney, La., appropriation for improvement of................. 647

Bayou D'Arbonne, La.,

appropriation for improvement of..................

647

Bayou Grossetete, La.,

preliminary examination of, to be made...... 671

Bayou Lafourche, La.,

appropriation for improvement of....

647

preliminary examination to be made of.. 955

post lantern lights authorized in....

534

Bayou Manchac, La., appropriation for improvement of......... 647
Bayou Macon, La., appropriation for improvement of................... 647

INDEX.

xxi

84528 TIT2O8R82

Bayou Perot, La.,

Page.

post lantern lights authorized in...

534

Bayou Plaquemine Brulé, La., appropriation for improvement of......... 648

Bayou Plaquemine, La., appropriation for improvement of, including Grand River and Pigeon bayous. 647

Bayou Segnette, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in..................

534

Bayou Teche, La.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 647, 942

Bayou Terrebonne, La.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion.....

647

Bayou Villars, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in......

534

Beaumont Navigation District, Tex., contribution for improving Sabine-Neches Canal to be made by...
deposit required; maintenance of channel, etc...
Beaumont, Tex., appropriation for improvement of SabineNeches Canal from Neches River to .
local contribution, maintenance, etc... terms of court at.. Beaver Falls, Pa.,
appropriation for public building....
enlargement of public building at, authorized ....
Beaverhead National Forest, Mont.,

Page. 944 944
943 944 1126 1366 680

Bayou Vermilion, La., appropriation for improvement of...

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 425, 1247 648 Bed Sets,

Beach, Warren C.,

duty on cotton, etc., made on Notting-

appointment authorized as captain of in-

ham lace or warp machines...

50

fantry, Army, retired ; entitled to

Bed Sides,

no pay, etc..

910 duty on wool ..

-55

Beads,
duty on.. articles of...

Bedford City, Va.,

64 construction of public building at, au-

64

thorized ......

683

fabrics, etc.... silkgoods ornamented with.
woolen goods ornamented with... Beams,

64 Bedford, Pa.,

60 appropriation for public building...

1366

55 acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

687

duty on iron or steel..

22 Bee Culture,

Beams, Deck and Bulb, duty on iron or steel.
Bean Stick and Bean Cake,
duty on... Beans,
duty on, drugs, not edible. edible.:..

appropriation for investigations in..... 433, 1257

22 Beef,

duty on fresh......

38

36 Beer,

duty on....

41

13

coloring for.......

13

36

nonalcoholic.....

41

prepared, etc., edible....

36 Beeswax,

on free list, crude, not edible, not-specially

on free list..

73

provided for...

75 Beet-Root Ashes,

tonka..

80 on free list.....

.73

Bear Creek, Miss.,

Beet Seed, Sugar,

appropriation for improvement of....... 647, 942 on free list...

79

Beardstown, Ill.,

Beets,

appropriation for public building..

1366 duty on.....

36

acquiring site and erecting public building

seed .....

37

at, authorized ..

*684

sugar.

36

Bearings, Ball and Roller,

duty on iron or steel..

22

Beartooth National Forest, Mont.,

appropriationfor maintenance, etc., of.. 425, 1247

Beeville, Tex.,

appropriation for public building..

1366 .

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

692

Beatrice, Nebr.,

Beggars, Alien Professional,

appropriation for public building..

1366 excluded admission..

263

acquiring site for public building at,

Begonia Bulbs,

authorized....

690 duty on...

36

Beaufort County, S. C., and Chatham County, Ga. ,
may bridge Back River branch of Savannah River, at Savannah, Ga........
Beaufort Inlet, N. C., appropriation for improvement of.. for waterway from Pamlico Sound to..
inland waterway from Norfolk to; purchase of canals authorized for part of......

Belgium, appropriation for minister to...... for secretary of legation'..........

337, 1027 337,1028

180 Belhaven, N. C.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

641

made...

674

642 Bell, Alexander Graham,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

640

sonian Institution..........

874

Beaufort Lumber Company,

Bell Metal,

may bridge Lumber River, in Robeson

on free list, broken.......

73

County, N. C....

178

Beaufort, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor...

.. 641, 938

for improvement of waterways between

New River and..

641, 938

for improvement of channel from Norfolk and Beaufort Inlet waterway to. 642

for fish biological station, equipment,

etc ...

761, 1440

Bellaire, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1366

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized .

687

Belle Fourche Irrigation Project,

parties supplying material, etc., given right to sue contractors for...... 1170

Bellefontaine, Ohio,

construction of public building at, au-

thorized.....

682

xxii

INDEX .

Belleville, Ill.,

Page. Benzoic Acid,

appropriation for public building.

1366 on free list..

Bellinger, Lieutenant Colonel J. B.,

Benzol,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

on free list.

counts .

778 Benzyl Chloride,

Bellingham, Wash.,

on free list...

Page. 71
74
74

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor...

664, 951

local cooperation; contracts .

951

for public building..

704, 1366

limit of cost increased, public building.. 679

terms of court at..

1129

Bells,

on free list, broken...

73

Belmont Road NW., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing..

232

appropriation for expenses.

232

Beloit, Kans.,

construction of public building at, au-

thorized....

681

Belting, Machinery,

duty on cotton, etc., and India rubber... 48

Bellings,

Berg, Harald,

deficiency appropriation for refund of fine

to .

1295

Bergamot Oil,

on free list.

77

Bering River, Alaska, bridges authorized across, by Controller

Railway and Navigation Company .. 1360

Bering Sea,

appropriation for protecting seal fisheries

in .

711, 1389

citizens, etc., forbidden to hunt fur seals in. 328

Berkeley, Cal.,

appropriation for public building ..

1366

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

684

Berlin Blue,

duty on.

15

88885

duty on artificial silk or imitation horsehair..
cotton, flax, etc .. silk..

Berlin, N. H.,

60 appropriation for public building.

1366

50 acquiring site for public building at, au-

59

thorized...

690

tinsel wire, etc ..

30 Berlin Rugs,

woolen..

54 duty on.

55

Belton, Tex.,

Bermuda,

appropriation for public building............................ 1366 appropriation for weather-service expenses

acquiring site for public building at, au-

in..

418, 1237

thorized .....

692 Bermuda Islands,

Belts,

tonnage duty on vessels from ports in...... 111

duty on cotton, flax, etc...

50 Berne, Switzerland,

leather..

68 appropriation for share in expense of Inter-

Bellsville, Md.,

national Bureau at.

515, 1217

appropriation for animal experiment

Berries,

farm..

1240 duty on, drugs, not edible.

13

for buildings.

1240

edible...

37

255

Bemidji, Minn.,

dried, etc..

37

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

Persian, extract of..

13

at..

262 on free list, crude, not edible, not specially

Ben Hill County, Ga.,

provided for.

75

attached to Albany division of Georgia

green, ripe, or dried, not specially pro-

25

southern judicial district......

181

vided for..

75

Bench Knives, Carpenters ,

Berrys Creek, N. J.,

duty on..

27 construction ofcanal authorized to Hacken-

Benches, duty on marble, etc.
Beneficial Societies, or Orders, Fraternal, exempt from corporation tax..
Benicia Arsenal, Cal.,

sack River from ..

1082

21 fixed bridge over, allowed on completion of

canal .

1083

113 Bethesda, Md., . appropriation for maintenance of animal

appropriation for ammunition storehouses. 720

experiment station.

420, 1240

Bennetts Ferry, Ark.,

for buildings..

1240

time extended for bridging Black River at. 588 Bethlehem, Pa.,

Bennettsville, S. C., appropriation for public building.

appropriation for public building.

1366 ·

1366 acquiring site for public building at, au-

acquiring site and erecting public building

thorized..

691

at, authorized

688 Bettendorf, Iowa,

Bennington, Vt., construction of public building authorized at..
Bentalou, Paul, deficiency appropriation for paying French spoliation claim to heirs of..
Benton County, Wash.,

bridge authorized across Mississippi River,

from Moline, Ill ., to ... ....

464

683 Beverages,

195

duty on nonalcoholic .

41

spirituous, not specially provided for.... 40

205 Beverly, Mass.,

appropriation for public building.

1367

time extended for final proofs of desert-land

deficiency appropriation for public build-

entries in; affidavits ....

960

ing, land.

207

Benzaldehyde, on free list..
Benzidin, on free list.
Benzine,
on free list, oil .................

Bias Dress Facings,

74 duty on cotton..

47

Bibulous Paper, ·

14 duty on.

61

-Bicycles,

78 duty on, and parts.....

25

INDEX .

xxiii

Biddeford, Me.,

Page. | Biological Survey Bureau, Department ofAgri- `Page.

construction of public building authorized

culture Continued.

at

681 appropriation for game for reservations.... 1258

Big BayPoint Light Station, Mich., purchase ofadditional lands for..

for investigating food habits of birds and

923

animals...

434, 1258

Big Bend ofthe James River, Mo.,

dam authorized in.

929

Big Black River, Miss.,. preliminary examination of, to be made.. 672

Big Rapids, Mich.,

appropriation for public building...

1367

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Big Sandy River, W. Va. and Ky. ,

appropriation for improvement of; bridge

at Lock No. 1....

652

forimprovement of Lockand Dam No. 1,

Tug Fork...

652, 730

for investigating migration, etc., of

plants and animals..

434, 1258

for administrative work.......

434, 1258

deficiency appropriation for national bison

range, Montana, fencing..

215

for investigations..

812-

Bird Breeding Reserves,

appropriation for protecting, etc...... 434, 1258 BirdPoint, Mo.,

telephone cable authorized across Mississippi River between Cairo, Ill. , and. 336
Bird Skins,

duty on, with feathers on, crude.......

66

forimprovement ofLock and Dam No. 1,

Birds,

Levisa Fork.

652, 730 duty on, dressed, etc. , ' for millinery orna-

Big Stone Gap, Va.,

ments.

66

appropriation for public building ........ 1367 on free list...

-73

terms of court at..

1128

stuffed, not for millinery..

73

BigSunflower River, Miss.,

eggs of....

75

appropriation for improvement of................ 647,942 | Birmingham, Ala.,

Big Tarkio River, Mo.,

appropriation for public building .

declared not a navigable water.

194 acquiring site for public building at,

Big Thoroughfare River, Md.,

authorized..

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671 made subport of entry...

Bighorn National Forest, Wyo.,

immediate transportation entry privi-

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

leges extended to....

Billets,

terms of court at..

1367
688 . 1086
1086 1106

duty on, iron....

22

steel ..

23

Billiard Balls,

duty on, ivory, bone, etc.......

66

Billings, Mont.,

appropriation for public building.

1367

Bills ofExchange, Foreign, time extended for claims for refund of

stamp taxes on, for exported mer-

chandise..

120, 779, 1291

Biscayne Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 644

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 670

Biscuits,

duty on, not specially provided for....... 36

sweetened, etc.......

36

Bismarck, N. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 279, 1068

for farming experiments ..

1068

for public building...

1367

Bills ofLading (see also Invoices),

deficiency appropriation for Indian school

holders of indorsed, ofimports deemed con-

at..

223

signee..

91 terms of court at.

1121

Biloxi, Miss.,

Bismuth,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 646 on free list.......

73

part· ofpublic building site deeded toCity

Bison Range, Montana National,

for street..

186 appropriation for maintenance, etc.... 434, 1258

terms of court at.

1116 deficiency appropriation for fencing.

215

Binding Twine,

Bisque Ware,.

duty on, from countries laying duty on,

duty on decorated, etc..................................

18

from United States....

73

not decorated, etc...

18

on free list, ofNewZealand hemp, etc..

73 Bitterroot National Forest, Mont.,

Bindings, duty on cotton, flax, etc.. silk. woolen.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247
50 Bitters, Spirituous, 59 duty on, not specially provided for ................. 40 54 Bitumen,

Binghamton, N. Y., terms of court at.
Binitrobenzol, on free list.
Binitrochlorbenzol, on free list.

duty on, for.

18 ·

1119 Bituminous Coal,

duty on...

.65

74 Black, Bone, Ivory, or Vegetable,

duty on.

15

74 Black Death,

Binitrotoluol, on free list..

appropriation for prevention of epi-

74

demic.......

717, 1395

Biological SurveyBureau, Department ofAgri- ·

culture,

appropriation for salaries..

434, 1257

for general expenses..

434, 1257

for preventing shipment of illegally

killed game, etc..

434, 1258

for maintenance, bison range, etc.... 434, 1258

Black Hills National Forest, S. Dak.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

restriction on exporting dead, etc., timber

from...

424, 1246

Black Point, Ariz., diversion intake dam authorized on Colo- ·

rado River at........

909

for-feeding, etc., elk in Wyoming.

1258 Black River, Ark., and Mo. ,

for protecting, etc., bird breeding re-

appropriation for improvement of..... 651, 945

serves...

434, 1258 bridgeauthorized across,nearParoquet,Ark. 198

xxiv

INDEX .

***E*

Black River, Ark., and Mo.- Continued.

Page.

bridge authorized across, near Pocahontas,

Ark .

178

Poplar Bluff, Mo

907

time extended for bridging, at Bennetts

Ferry, Ark..

588

Black River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of, at Port

Huron....

655, 947

Black River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 642, 938 Black Rock Harbor, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts...

633, 935

Black Salts,

on free list..

78

Black Warrior River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts...

646, 942

for improvement of; locks and dams. 729, 1406

Blackberry, Minn.,

may bridge Mississippi River...

910

Blackfeet Indian Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for constructing irrigation system on; repayment..... .... 277, 1066

Blackfeet National Forest, Mont. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 425, 1247

Blackfish Bayou, Ark., appropriation for improvement of........ 945

Blacking,

duty on.

12

Blacksmiths' Hammers and Sledges,

duty on, iron or steel...

25

Blackwater River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of...................... 645

Blackwell, Okla.,

appropriation for public building..

1367

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

687

Bladders,

duty on, fish....

14

manufactures of, not specially provided

for...

69

on free list, crude, not specially provided

for..

73

Blanc Fixe,

duty on..

15

Blank Books,

duty on.

64

Blankenship, John M.,

may be appointed ensign in Navy, re-

tired.

899

Blankets,

duty on, woolen .......................

54

Blanks,

duty on, axle, of iron or steel, not otherwise

provided for.......

25

bolt, of iron or steel..

25

for railway wheels or tires

hinge, of iron or steel...

25

steel, die.....

23

Blasting Caps,

duty on..

66

Blasting Fuses,

duty on, not composed of cotton....

66

Bleaching Powder,

duty on..

12

Blind,

on free list, books and music in raised char-

acters for the....

74

Blind Children, D. C. , Indigent,

appropriation for instruction of, outside of

District....

399,989

deficiency appropriation for educating.... 785

Blind Persons,

census schedules to indicate......

Blinds, Porch and Window,

Page.

duty on, wood, bamboo, etc..

34

Block Island, R. I.,

appropriation for harbor of refuge..

632, 934

for improvement of harbor Great Salt

Pond ...

632

Block-Signal Systems, etc., Railway,

appropriation for investigating use and

necessity for.

720, 1397

Blocks,

duty on, wood, roughhewn, etc..

33

on free list, tin in..

80

Blocks, Die,

duty on steel.....

23

Blood,

duty on, albumen..

36

dried, soluble..

36

onfree list, dried, not speciallyprovidedfor. 73

Blood Char,

duty on....

13

Bloomington, Ind., appropriation for public building.. limit of cost increased, public building....
Blooms,
duty on iron..... for railway wheels or tires.... steel...

1367 677
22 29 23

Blue Island, Il .,

appropriation for public building..

1367

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

684

Blue Vitriol,

duty on..

12

Bluefield, W. Va.,

terms of court at..

1129

Bluehill, Me.,

preliminary examination of, to be made of

inner harbor..

953

Blues,

duty on Berlin....

15

Chinese....

15

containing ferrocyanide of iron...

15.

Prussian .

15

ultramarine .

15

wash, containing ultramarine.

15

Board ofCharities, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.

405, 997

Board ofEngineersfor Rivers and Harbors,

to review all reports on examinations and

surveys ....

668, 956

Board ofExaminers, Steam Engineers, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...

379, 972

Board of General Appraisers of Merchandise,

appointment of nine members; sessions at

New York..

98

tenure; salary; general powers....

98

appeals from decisions of collectors of cus-

toms to be sent to..

98

designation of president...

98

division into three boards; assignments..

98

authority of boards....

99

rules of procedure to be established ..

99

authority of president....

99

no member to sit on appeals from his deci-

sions .....

99

rehearings authorized.

99

appeals to, for reappraisement by collector

or importer..

99

authority to determine; hearings, etc... 99

decisions final....

100

decisionsofcollectorastoduties,etc., final.. 100

appeals allowed to board...

100

determination of, final...

100

appeal to court of customs appeals.. 100

general appraisers authorized to administer

oaths, etc..

100

8*8*8*8 K828 2222

INDEX.

$ * *** *

Board ofGeneral Appraisers of Merchandise- Page. | Bolting Cloths,

Page.

Continued.

on free list, silk .

73

examinations by general appraisers, cus-

Bolts,

toms officers, etc..

100 duty on, heading...

preservation of testimony.

100

iron or steel..............

25

penalty for failure to give information,

stave...

etc...

100 Bombs,

punishment for false swearing, etc.... 101 duty on..

66

forfeiture of goods....

101 Bomer, E. J., and S. B. Wilson,

decisions of general appraisers to be pre-

granted right of way over road to National

served, etc...

101

Cemetery, Vicksburg, Miss....... 926

to be reported to Secretary of the Treas-

Bonded Manufacturing Warehouses (see Ware-

uryand board at New York; samples. 101

houses, Bonded Manufacturing).

publication of abstracts..

101 Bonded Smelting Warehouses,

final decisions of, appealable only to court

provisions for....

89

of customs appeals....

1145 Bonded Warehouses (see Warehouses, Bonded).

completion of appeals pending in other

Bonding Companies,

courts..

1145 deficiency appropriation for expenses of

appeals from decisions of, to be made to

commission to investigate rates,

court of customs appeals...

1146

etc ..

891, 1317

limit of time; extended for Alaska and

commission created to investigate rates,

insular possessions....

1146

etc., of....

126

procedure; decisions of court final..

1146

continued ..

804

action of, on decisions of court..

1146 restriction of premiums for official bondsby 125

appropriation for fees, etc., of witness be-

Bonds, Customs,

fore....

1424 required for production of invoice, when

Board ofOrdnance and Fortification,

entry made on sworn statement..... 92

appropriation for general expenses ..... 599, 1344 Bonds, Naval Contractors' ,

for civilian member.....

599, 1344 deposit accepted in lieu of....

628

for tests ofexperimental guns, etc... 599, 1344

inquiryas toright of invention, etc. 599, 1344

Board ofVisitors,

appropriation for expenses, Military Acad-

emy

317, 1021

for expenses, Naval Academy....... 624, 1283

Boards,

duty on, sawed cabinet wood .

33

Bonds ofSurety Companies,

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

commission to investigate rates of premium, etc., for.... ..... 126, 891, 1317

acceptance of, maximum premium re-

stricted ...

125

commissioncreated toinvestigate rates, etc. 126

continued...

804

Bawed whitewood, sycamore, and basswood.....
Boas, duty on, feathers, artificial, etc ......

Bonds, Official,

33 deficiency appropriation for expenses, com-

mission to investigate rates of pre-

66

mium for, etc.....

126, 891, 1317

Bockings,

duty on......

55

Bodkins,

duty on metal..............

28

BoeufRiver, La., · appropriation for improvement of..................... 647

Bogue Falia, La., appropriation for improvement of...................... 647

Bogue Sound, N. C.,

" appropriation for range light...........

1430

range lightsauthorized..

535

Boiler or Plate Iron or Steel,

payment by United States of employees',

prohibited.

125

proceedings in Court of Claims for settle-

ment of, security for unadjusted ac-

counts.:.

1141

cases to be reported to Congress by Attor-

ney General....

1142

restriction on acceptance of, by bonding

companies; maximum premium.... 125

commission created to investigate rates

etc., of.......

126

continued..

804

duty on.....

22 Bonds, Panama Canal,

Boilers, Safe, Locomot·ive Engine,

appropriation for expenses, compelling

railroads to use...

1397

provisions for compelling use of..........

913

Bois Fort Indians, Minn.,

not receivable as security for national-bank

circulation.....

1013

Bonds, Railroad Corporations,

commission authorized to investigate issue

of..

556

deficiency appropriation for funeral, etc.,

deficiency appropriation for.

774, 1291

expenses.... Boise, Idaho,
appropriation for assay office at.. terms of court at.... Boise National Forest, Idaho,

1323 Bonds, Recognizances, etc., Surety,

498, 1201 928, 1109

authority of Secretary of the Treasury

respecting, of security, etc., com-

panies....

241

Bonds, Territorial, etc.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 issue authorized for waterworks by Doug-

Bolard, Edward,

las, Ariz....

290

lease between Seneca Nation and, ratified . 927 restriction on issue of, by Hawaii...

444

Bolivia,

Bonds, United States (see also Securities,

appropriation for ministerto .

337, 1027

United States, and Certificates of

for secretary of legation.......

337, 1028

Indebtedness),

29235

Bologna Sausages,

additional issue for completion of Panama

on free list..

79

Canal, etc., authorized.....

117

Bolt Blanks,

denominations, rate of interest, etc..... 117

duty on, iron or steel ...

former law repealed ......

117

xxvi

INDEX .

Bonds, United States-Continued .

Page.

issue of two and one-half per cent, to postal

savings depositors...

817

conditions...

817

exempt from taxation....

817

not receivable as security for national-

bank circulation ...

817

redemption of, subject to call for use of

savings deposit fund...

818

reissue to trustees.

818

subsequent redemption

818

principal and interest of, payable in gold

coin....

192

appropriation for expenses of issue, etc.......... 192 Bone,

8288

duty on, dice, balls, etc ......

66

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

69

on free list, cuttlefish..

75

Bone Ash,

on free list........

73

Bone Casings,

duty on cotton, etc., and india rubber.... 48

silk.

60

Bone Char,

duty on.

13

Bone Dust,

on free list..

73

Boneblack,

duty on.

15

Bones,

on free list, crude.......

73

Bonham, Tex., appropriation for public building........................... 1367
Bonne Terre, Mo.,

accepting site for public building at, by

donation, authorized .

697

mineral rights reserved..

697

Bonners Ferry Bridge Commission, Idaho, may bridge Kootenai River at Bonners

Ferry, Idaho ...

192

Bonners Ferry, Idaho,

bridgeauthorized across Kootenai Riverat. 192,855

Bonnels,

duty on fur.....

67

straw, etc...

64

Bonneville National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

Bonsal, Leigh,

deficiency appropriation for paying, as administrator of Eloise Bentalou San-

ger Michard..

205

Book Typewriter,

recording instruments filed with recorder

of deeds, D. C., may be done by.... 382 Bookbinders' Calfskins,

duty on.....

68

Booklets,

duty on, decorated by hand, etc.

63

lithographically printed ..

63

Books,

duty on all kinds of, not specially provided

for....

64

children's lithographically printed..

63

needle..

28

printing paper for, not specially pro-

vided for..

61

additional from country imposing ex-

port duty on, etc..

61

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc.; limit.

74

for the United States or Library of Con-

gress......

73

in foreign languages....

74

dd e*

Books-Continued.

Page

on free list, in raised characters for the

blind .

of persons from foreign countries. printed more than 20 years. professional, of immigrants..

special regulations for free entry of serial, on one declaration..

Books, etc., Obscene or Immoral,

importation prohibited ; seizure, etc....... 86

Boon Island, Me.,

fog signal station authorized on......

534

Boonville, Mo.,

8* 33333

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

Boot Lacings,
duty on cotton, etc.. Boothbay Harbor, Me.,
preliminary examination of, to be made... Boots,

48 671 .

duty on leather...... Boracic Acid,
duty on.. Borates ofLime, Soda, etc.,
duty on. Borax,
duty on. Borderland Coal Company,

68, 68 12 13 13

time extended for bridging Tug Fork of Big Sandy River, Nolan, W. Va., by........ 198

Bort, Diamond,

on free list, cut, but not set...

75

Boston, Mass.,

appropriation for credit in accounts of

assistant treasurer ....

347

for assistant treasurer's office....

495, 1197

for navy-yard, public works....

014, 1274

for improvement of harbor; mainte-

nance .

631, 1405

for improvement of harbor, 35-foot chan-

nel..

729

for customhouse..

704, 1367

for electrical burglar alarm, public build-

ing at.

708

foranimal quarantine station..

1240

for appraisers' stores..

1367

for constructing immigration station.. 1441

deficiency appropriation for construction

of immigration station .

800

bridges authorized across Charles River,

between Cambridge and.

933

exchange of site acquired for immigration

station, authorized ..

702

additional cost.....

904

lighthouse depot, authorized at.

1080

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

672

of harbor at Winthrop Beach..

953

term of circuit court of appeals at.

1132

terms of district court at..

1114

"Boston," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs

621

Botanic Garden, D. C.,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants and laborers..

482, 1184

for repairs and improvements. for general repairs.... for removal of fence and wall..

482, 1184 766, 1443
1403

on free list, plants, trees, etc., for ... ..... 78

38983

Botany, Specimens,

on free list, for public collections, not for

sale ...

79

Bottle Caps,

duty on, metal.............

32

INDEX.

xxvii

Bottles,
duty on glass, plain... glass, decorated, etc....
Bottoms,
duty on copper..... Boundaries,

Page. 19 19
30

in Columbia River, consent of Congress to

agreement as to, between Oregon

and Washington....

881

in Missouri River, consent of Congress to

agreement as to, between Kansas

and Missouri..........

881

Boundary, between Texas and NewMexico as decided

by Clark lines declared conclusive.. 1454

provisions for re-marking, etc.................. 1455

appropriation for expenses.

1455

Boundary Commission, Mexican Water,

appropriation for continuing work of... 342, 1032

Boundary Line, Alaska and Canada,

appropriation forsurveyingand marking. 343, 1033

Boundary Line, Canadian, appropriation for marking, etc.............. 344, 1033

Boundary Line, Passamaquoddy Bay, appropriation for expenses ofarbitration of. 344

expenses for marking, to be paid from ap-

propriation for arbitration commis-

sion.

775

Boundary Lines, International,

erection offences permitted along, to keep

out diseased animals.......

440

Boundary with Canada,

appropriation for expenses of commission

on water...

766, 1364

payment of rent for commission on water. 1290

Bounty, appropriation for, volunteers .

737, 1413

deficiency appropriation for destruction of

enemy's vessels .

222, 226, 1322

for seamen's enlistment........... 222,810, 1322, 1326

Bounty, Export,

countervailing duty on imports from coun-

try paying, on the same..

* 85

minimum tariff on imports from countries

paying no..

82

proclamation announcing, to be issued .. 82

Boutonnieres,

duty on feathers, artificial, etc......

66

Bowling Green and Northern Railroad Com-

pany, may bridge Green River, Davis Ferry, Ky. 852

Barren River, Bowling Green, Ky..

852

Bowling Green, Ky.,

appropriation for public building...

1367

bridge authorized across Barren River åt... 852

limit of cost increased, public building.. 678

terms of court at.......

1113

Bowling Green, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at.....

682

Bowman Act,

repealed byJudicial Code............................

1168

Box Canyon, Wash.,

bridge_authorized across Pend d'Oreille

River in.......

179

Boxes,

duty on, containing citrus fruits.

33

metal, lacquered, etc..

32

leather...

68

jewel....

68

paper, surface-coated..

64

Boxes, Orange andLemon, duty on, filled, made of American shooks.. 33

Boxwood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc..

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only....

81

*****2

888

Boyd, George H.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for compiling cus-

toms tariffs......

217

Boyne City, Mich.,

appropriation for public building..

1367

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized....

690

Boys' Training School, D. C., National,

appropriation for care and maintenance of

inmates...

407,998

Bozeman, Mont.,

appropriation for public building..

1367

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

686

grant of public lands to; payment...

893

Braces,

8888885

duty on cotton, etc., and india rubber..

48

silk..

60

woolen...

54

Braddock, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.

1367

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, site.....

207

Bradford, Pa.,

appropriation for public building......... 1367

Bradley County, Tenn.,

bridge authorized across Hiwassee River,

by McMinn County and......

187

may bridge Saline River, Reddings Ferry.. 179

Brads,

duty on cut.......

28

Braids,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair...

60



cotton, flax, etc......

featherstitch..

50

horsehair......

64

silk.....

60

straw, etc., for hats, etc.

64

tinsel wire, etc...........

30

woolen....

54

Brakes, Railway Hand,

cars to be equipped with..

298

Brandy,

duty on; determination of proof...

39

coloring for...

13

imitations of..

40

Brandy, Fruit (see Fruit Brandy). Brandywine Shoal, Delaware Bay, Del.,

appropriation for rebuilding light and fog-

signal station....

1430

improving, etc., light, etc., station, author-

ized..

1080

Branford, Conn. ,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor.....

633

Brass,

duty on jewelry articles of..

67

on free list, fit only for remanufacture..

74

clippings from.................

74

old.

74

Brattleboro, Vt.,

appropriation for public building.......... 1367

Braziers' Copper,

duty on..

30

Brazil,

appropriation for ambassador to...

337, 1027

for secretary of embassy..

337, 1028

for second secretary....

338, 1028

Brazil, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.

1367

limit of cost increased, public building... 677

Brazil Nuts,

on free list.

77

Brazilian Pebbles,

on free list, unwrought......

74

xxviii

INDEX .

Brazos River, Tex.,

Page.

appropriation for constructing waterway

between Matagorda Bay and.

650

for improvement of, from Velasco to Old

Washington.

650, 944

Old Washington to Waco, Lock and

Dam No. 8..

650, 945

for improvement of mouth of.

944

preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

from mouth to Waco......

955

Bread,

duty on, not specially provided for..

36

sweetened, etc..

36

Bread Knives,

duty on.

27

Breakage, no allowance for, on imported wines, etc.. 40

Breccia,

duty on monuments, etc ... Bremerton, Wash. (see Puget Sound Navy
Yard, Wash.). Brewer, David J., Late Justice of Supreme
Court ofthe United States, deficiency appropriation for widow of..... 799 Briar Root, Briar Wood, etc., duty on, unmanufactured, cut into blocks. 33

Bribery,

punishment for attempting by, to secure discriminations in rates, etc., by

shippers...

550

of customs officials, etc ..

103

burden of proof ....

103

of officials in customs cases..

103

Brick,

duty on, firc..

17

other than fire .

17

Bridgeport, Conn.,

appropriation for improvementofharbor. 633, 729

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

669

Bridgeport, Wash., bridge authorized across Columbia River at 293
Bridger National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1247

Bridges,

appropriation for constructing, across Little

Colorado River, Tanner's Crossing,

Ariz ...

1062

for constructing two, across Rio Grande,

at Indian pueblos, N. Mex ..

1062

deficiency appropriation for, across Du-

chesne River, Myton, Utah:

124

construction of, authorized across Alle-

gheny River, Pa................

179

Apalachicola River, Fla...

233

Arkansas River, Little Rock to Argenta,

Ark .

930

Pine Bluff, Ark..

601

Van Buren to Fort Smith, Ark.

229

Black Riyer branch of Savannah River, Savannah, Ga....
Bayou Bartholomew, Ark. Barren River, Ky... Bering River, Alaska..
Black River, Paroquet, Ark. Poplar Bluff, Mo.. Pocahontas, Ark.
Calumet River, Chicago, Ill.. Charles River, Mass.. Choctawhatchee River, Fla..
Columbia River, Bridgeport, Wash . Grant and Kittitas Counties.. Hell Gate, Wash.. Northport, Wash .
Columbia River and Celilo Canal, Celilo, Oreg...

180 179 852 1360 198 907 178. 180 933 233 293 600 415 1351
230

1189&8

Bridges Continued.

Page.

construction of, authorized across Connect-

icut River, Conn

228

Copper River, Alaska.

263

Cumberland River, Tenn..

185

Current River, Ark.......

195

Delaware River..

959

Escambia Bay, Fla..

233

Grand Calumet River, East Chicago, Ind. 178

Hammond, Ind .

293

Lake County, Ind. Green River, Ky. Hiwassee River, Tenn..

468, 587 852 187

Kootenai River, Idaho..

192, 855

Lake Champlain, Alburg to Swanton, Vt. 1358

Lake Jessup, Fla..

330

Little Calumet River, Ill.

178

Lumber River, N. C...

178

Mattawoman Creek, Md ..

1086

Menominee River, Mich. and Wis.... 350, 868

Mississippi River, Aitkin County, Minn. 180

Bass Brook, Minn.

190

Bemidji, Minn..

262

Blackberry, Minn.

910

Minneapolis, Minn..

179, 187, 187, 193 .

-Moline, Ill., to Bettendorf, Iowa.

464

Nininger, Minn....

958

Saint Paul, Minn.

907

Missouri River, Arrow Rock, Mo.

600

Atchison, Kans.

905

Chamberlain, S. Dak..

903

Saint Charles, Mo...

600

Sibley, Mo..

239

Mobile Bay, Ale.

869

Mobile River, Mobile, Ala.

958

Monongahela River, McKeesport to

Mifflin, Pa....

822

Morgantown, W. Va.

195

New Geneva, Pa...

188

Wilson to Glassport, Pa.

195

Morris and Cumming Channel, Aransas

Pass, Tex....

324,588

'Noxubee River, Noxubee County, Miss. 178

Okanogan River, Defflins Ferry, Wash.. 294

Omak, Wash.

180

Ouachita River, Ark. Palmers River, R. I..

178, 1013 300

Pearl River, Miss... Pend d'Oreille River, Wash. Perdido Bay, Fla. and Ala. Piscataqua River, N. H... Red Lake River, Minn.. Red River, Okla....

179 179 415 1362 958 189

Shreveport, La..

961

Red River of the North at Drayton,

N. Dak.

894

Fargo, N. Dak...

907

Rio Grande, Del Rio, Tex., to Mexican

bank...

853

El Oro, Tex., to Presidio del Norte,

Mexico..

853

Laredo, Tex., to Nuevo Laredo,

Mexico....

188

Saint Croix River, Minn . and Wis..... 263

Saint Croix and Washington Counties,

Wis....

235, 921

Saint Francis River, Fisk, Mo..

352

Fisk and Saint Francis, Ark.

179

Parkin, Ark..

199

Saint Joseph River, Mich .

243

Saint Marys River, Ga...

855

Saline River, Ark....

179

Snake River, Ontario, Oreg..

179

Payette, Idaho..

*1351

South Branch of Mississippi River...

964

Stockton Canal, Cal..

601

INDEX .

xxix

222282

Bridges Continued.

Pago. | Bristol Board,

Pago.

construction of, authorized across Tennes-

duty on..

63

see River, Chattanooga, Tenn...

908 Bristol, Conn.,

Chattanooga to Hill City, Tenn .. Tombigbee River, Miss... Town Creek, N. Ó ..

908 appropriation for public building.

1367

.897 deficiency appropriation for public build-

350

ing...

779

Tug Fork, Big Sandy River, Warfield,
Ky.. Tug River, Thacker, W. Va..

Bristol, Pa.,

230 appropriation for public building; new

197

site authorized...

1367

Wabash River, Mount Carmel, III... Saint Francisville, Ill.
Waccamaw River, S. C. Warren River, R. I .. White River, Ark...

300 Bristol, R. I.,

292 appropriation for public building........ 1368 179 enlargement of public building at, au-

300

thorized ....

680

199 Britannia Metal,

Yellowstone River, Mont..

600 on free list, old, fit only to be remanufac-

changes allowed in building, across Ar-

tured .

78

kangas River at Dardanellé, Ark.... 189 British Gum,

consent of Congress to, across Saint John

duty on..

39

River, by Maine and Canada.......

904 Broad Creek, Md.,

fixed, allowed over Berrys Creek, N. J., on

completion of canal to Hackensack

River.

1083

included with railroads in interstate com-

preliminary examination of, to be made... 671 Broad Creek River, Del.,
appropriation for improvement of...... 638, 937 Broadkill River, Del.,

merce regulations..

545 appropriation for improvement of...... 638,937

legalized across Mississippi River, Hill

Broadway Bargain House,

City, Minn..

193 deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

Snake River, at Ontario, Orég.

191

ment..

889

time extended for constructing, across

Brokers, Custom-House,

Bayou Bartholomew, Morrell, Ark.. 187 licenses required; issue, revocation, etc ... 464

Portland, Ark.. Wilmot, Ark.. Black River, Ark. Clinch River, Va..

190 Bronx, N. Y.,

190 appropriation for public building................ 1368

588 acquiring site for public building at, au-

330

thorized .

691

Holston River, Tenn. and Va......

330 Bronx River, N. Y.,

Kansas River, Kans....

191 appropriation for improvement of........ 635

Mississippi River, Saint Louis, Mo.... 185, 196 preliminary examination of, to be made ... 673

Missouri River, Council Bluffs, Iowa... 853 Bronze,

Kansas City, Mo..

178 duty on, brocades.....

29

Kansas City to Sibley, Mo..... South Dakota..

198

Alitters..

179

leaf.

Yankton, S. Dak.

186, 267, 1082, 1351

metallics .....

Monongahela River, Brownsville, Pa.. 870, 909

powder .

Pittsburg, Pa....

269, 908 Bronze, Works in,

Morris and Cumming Channel, Aransas

on free list, produced more than 100 years

Pass, Tex...

1359

before importation..........

82

Tug Fork, Big Sandy River, W. Va... Waccamaw River, Conway, S. C ...

198 Brooke, James V., 906 deficiency appropriation for services ...... 216

Star Bluff, S. C'.. Willamette River, Oreg..
Bridges, D. C.,

906 Brookfield, Mo.,

1348 construction of public building authorized

at..

682

appropriation for construction and re-

Brookhaven, Miss.,

pairs.....

387, 978 appropriation for public building .... 704, 1368

for strengthening, etc., Rock Creek at

Brookings, S. Dak.,

Calvert Street

387 construction of public building authorized

forhighway, operating..

387,978

at...

683

for Anacostia River, operating..

387,978 Brooklyn, N. Y.,

for subway and, Cedar Street under Bal-

"terms ofcourt at.

1119

timore and Ohio Railroad..

387 "Brooklyn," U. S. S. ,

for constructing, etc. , across Rock Creek,

appropriation for repairs; additional...... 620

at Q Street .

979 Broom Corn,

Bridges, Reenforced Foundations of

duty on.

35

appropriation for investigating destructive

Brooms,

effects ofelectric currents on..... 528, 1232 duty on.

85

Briggs, Lieutenant Allan L.,

Brown, Herbert D.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

deficiency appropriation for services.............. -128

counts. Brigham City, Utah,

779 Brown, Julian"M., deficiency appropriation for services.... 1316

appropriation for public building..

1367 Brownlow, W. P., late a Representative in

acquiringsite and erecting public building

Congress,

at, authorized.....

688 deficiency appropriation for widow of..... 1317

Brimstone,

Browns Creek, N. Y.,

on free list....

79 appropriation for improvement of .............. 635

Briquettes, duty on coal.....

Brownsville, Pa., 65 time extended for bridging Monongahela

Bristles,

River at..

870, 909

duty on. on free list, crude..............................

65 Brownsville, Tex., 74 terms of court at.

1127

XXX

INDEX.

Brownsville, Tex. , Shooting Affray,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

court ofinquiry.

122, 789

Brownwood, Tex.,

construction of public building authorized

at.

683

Brule, Wis.,

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

955

Brunswick County, N. C., bridge authorized across Town Creekin.... 350

Brunswick, Ga. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 643, 938

for quarantine station, new wharf ....... 710

Brushes,

duty on.

65

carbon..

19

Brussels, Belgium, appropriation for annual contribution for

bureau at, for publication of cus-

toms tariffs...

342, 1031

for share in international bureau at, for

repressing African slave trade.... 342, 1032

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

Maritime LawConference at..

203

Brussels Carpels,

duty on.

55

tapestry .

55

Bryan County, Okla., bridge authorized across Red River in ..... 189

Bryan, Tex.,

appropriation for public building ...

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized.....

688

Bubonic Plague,

appropriation forpreventionof epidemic 717, 1394

Buckhannon and Northern Railroad Company, granted right ofway through lands of locks

on Monongahela River, W. Va..... 930

Buckhannon, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building .

1368

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

692

Buckles,

duty on trousers and waistcoat, iron or steel 65

Buckwheat,

duty on.

35

flour..

35

.,

Budding Knives,

duty on .

26

Buds,

duty on, drugs .

13

on free list, crude, not specially provided for 75

Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic,

deficiency appropriation for representation at Pan-American Conference at ... 203

for participation in International Agri-

cultural Exhibition ...

203

for participation in International Exposi-

tion of Fine Arts.....

203

for transporting delegates to conference

at..

775

use of Army transport for conveying delegates to Pan-American Conference

at, authorized ........

877

Buffalo Bayou (see Houston Ship Channel,

Tex.).

Buffalo, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of Black

Rock Harbor...

633, 933

privilege to City for park..

935

for improvement of harbor; conditions.. 633

completing Stony Point breakwater... 935

for light station north end ofbreakwater. 1431

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

673

Buffalo, N. Y.- Continued.

Page.

rebuilding, etc., North End Light Station,

authorized ..

1080

terms of court at.

1120

Buffalo, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building......

1368

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

693

Buffaloes,

appropriation for care, etc., Yellowstone

Park .

745, 1420

for maintenance, National Bison Range,

Mont...

434, 1258

Building and Loan Association, Mutual,

exempt from corporation tax..

113

Building, etc. , Regulations, D. C.,

issue and sale of, authorized; proceeds.... 208

Building Forms,

duty on, iron or steel...

22

Building Inspection, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries, division of.... 375, 967

for purchase, etc., motor vehicle...

967

building permits may be canceled and fee

refunded; conditions...

967

Buildings and Grounds, D. C. (see Public Buildings and Grounds, D. C.).

Buildings, D. C.,

appropriation for repair of, injured by

fire...

382, 975

height, construction, etc., of, regulated... 452

completion of church above limit per-

mitted .....

891

Buildings, D. C., Condemnation ofDangerous,

· appropriation for expenses..

382, 974

Buildings, D. C., Condemnation ofInsanitary,

appropriation for expenses.

390, 981

Buildings, etc., Reenforced Foundations of,

appropriation for investigating effects of

electric currents on...

528, 1232

Buildingsfor Embassies, etc., Abroad,

purchase of sites, etc., authorized .

917

use for residences and offices...

917

limit on annual appropriations....

917

detailed estimates; limit of cost.

917

Bulb Beams,

duty on iron or steel..

Bulbs and Bulbous Roots,

duty on drugs...

13

flower or foliage, not otherwise provided

for...

37

on free list, crude,-not specially provided

for..

75

not edible; not otherwise provided for.. 79

Bulgaria, Roumania, Servia, and,

appropriation for minister to...

337, 1027

for secretary of legation and consul-gen-

eral...

338, 1028

Bullion,

duty on lead.

30

on free list, gold or silver.

74

indefinite appropriation for parting and

refining repealed..

1292

estimates for expenses required.

1292

balances to be covered in..

1292

Bullion and Coin, appropriation for freight on..

492, 1194

Bullion, Gold,

gold certificates authorized for deposits of

assay office stamped .................

965

Bullions,

duty on, oftinsel wire, lame or lahn....... 30

Bunting,

duty on.

54

Buoyage,

appropriation for expenses of.... ............. 754, 1431

deficiency appropriation for.....

1324

22252

INDEX .

xxxi

Bureaufor Publication of Customs Tariffs, In- Paga. ternational (see International Bureau for Publication of Customs Tariffs):

Bureaufor Repression of African Slave Trade

(seeInternational Bureaufor Repression of African Slave Trade).

Bureau, International Sanitary (see Interna-

tional Sanitary Bureau).

Bureau ofAmerican Republics, International,

appropriation for expenses. for printing and binding for..

342, 1032 769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of new building.

203

for printing and binding.

807

printing allotment, 1910, increased.

878

Bureau ofAnimal Industry (see Animal Indus-

try Bureau, Department of Agricul-

ture).

Bureau of Biological Survey (see Biological

Survey Bureau, Department of Agriculture). Bureau of Chemistry (see Chemistry Bureau,

Department of Agriculture).

Bureau of Construction and Repair, Navy,

appropriation for construction, etc., ves-

sels..

620, 1280

limit, wooden ships.. other ships..
ships in foreign waters.. repairs to specified vessels. clerical, etc., services..

620, 1280 620, 1280 620, 1280 620, 1280 621, 1280

for construction plants..

621, 1280

forconstruction of new vessels..

629, 1288

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 509, 1211

draftsmen, etc., may be paid from

"Construction and repair"

509, 1212

deficiency appropriation for construction

and repair.

221,

·

226,791 , 810, 813, 1303, 1322, 1326

Bureau of Corporations (see Corporations Bu-

reau, Department of Commerce and

Labor).

Bureau of Education (see Education Bureau, Interior Department).

Bureau of Engraving and Printing (see En-

graving and Printing Bureau). Bureau of Entomology (see Entomology Bu-

reau, Department of Agriculture). Bureau ofEquipment, Navy,

appropriation for equipment ofvessels.. 612, 1272

clerical, etc., services..

613, 1273

maximum of pupils required at

schools receiving naval equipment,

reduced .

618

for coal and transportation .

613, 1273

for contingent.... for ocean and lake surveys.:

613, 1273 613, 1273

for coal depots..... for Naval Observatory..

613, 1273 618

for equipment of new vessels..

629

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 507, 1209

draftsmen, etc., may be paid from

"Equipment of vessels'

509, 1212

deficiency appropriation for equipment of

.vessels..

221, 793, 810, 813, 1322

for contingent .

810, 1303, 1322

for coal and transportation.

1303, 1322

distribution of duties of, to other bureaus of

the Department... funds and civilian employees..

613, 1273 614, 1273

discontinuance of bureau .

614, 1273

Bureau of Fisheries (see Fisheries_Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).
Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization (see Immigration and Naturalization
Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).

Bureau ofIndian Affairs (see Indian Depart- Page.

ment).

Bureau ofInsular Affairs (see Insular Affairs

Bureau, Army);

Bureau of Labor (see Labor Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).

Bureau of Lighthouses (see Lighthouses, Bureau of, Department of Commerce and Labor).

Bureau ofManufactures (see Manufactures Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor).

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy, appropriation for public works under.... 618 for surgeons' necessaries and civil estab-

lishment...

618, 1278

for contingent.. for transporting remains..

619, 1278 619, 1278

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 510, 1212

deficiency appropriation for repairs..

221

for contingent...

... 792, 794, 810, 1303

for medical department..

793, 1303, 1304

for transportation of remains.

794, 1304

Bureau of Mines (see Mines Bureau, Interior

Department).

Bureau of Navigation, Navy,
appropriation for transportation . for recruiting...........

608, 1268 608, 1268

evidence of age required; release of

minors on request of parent; condi-

tion....

608, 1268

for contingent....

608, 1268

for gunnery exercises..

608,1268

for steaming exercises.....

608, 1268

for experimental aviation work.....

1268

for outfits, enlisted men and appren-

tices.....

609, 1268

for naval auxiliaries.

609, 1269

for training stations, California.

'609, 1269

Rhode Island..

609, 1269

Great Lakes..........

609, 1269

for Naval War College.. for Naval Home...

609, 1269 610, 1270

for public works under.

617

for clerks, etc., Navy Department..... 506, 1209

deficiency appropriation for transportation. 221, 226,791, 810, 813, 1322

for gunnery exercises.... for outfits on first enlistments.

221, 1322 221,

for naval auxiliaries..

792, 1303, 1322 221, 1322

for training station, Rhode Island .

791

for training station, Great Lakes.. for recruiting...

792 810, 1322

for contingent..

810, 813

for transportation, recruiting, and con-

tingent...

810, 813

for outfits for landsmen

813

for training station, California....... 1304

Bureau ofOrdnance, Navy, appropriation for ordnance and ordnance

stores...

611, 1270

.clerical, etc., services.............. 611, 1271

for smokeless powder.

611, 1271

for Naval Gun Factory..

611, 1271

for new batteries for ships...

611, 1271

for fire-control instruments, etc...... 611, 1271

for landing guns, etc...

1271

for ammunition for ships...

611, 1271

for modernizing turrets..

611

for equipments for ammunition supply,

etc..

611

for small arms and machine guns. 612, 1271

for torpedoes and appliances... for remodeling torpedoes...... for mines and mine appliances...

612, 1271 612 612

for torpedo station, Rhode Island.... 612, 1271

xxxii

INDEX.

Bureau ofOrdnance, Navy-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for experimental work,armor,

powder, etc..

612, 1271

restriction ..

612

Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy,
appropriation for maintenance. clerical, etc., services...
for contingent.....

Page. 614, 1274 614, 1274 614, 1274

for Naval Militia.. employees in Department.
for repairs...

612, 1272 1272
612, 1272

for public works, yards, and stations. 614, 1274

capacity of floating crane, Pearl Har-

bor, increased..

1276

for contingent..

612, 1272

Naval Academy..

1276

for public works under...

617

training stations..

1276

for armor and armament of new ves-

Naval Observatory.

1277

sels.......

629, 1288

naval magazines, etc....

1277

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 510, 1212
draftsmen, etc., may be paid from "Ordnanceand ordnance stores ". 509, 1212

forMarine Corps Rifle Range, Winthrop,

Md...

1277

for repairs and preservation ..

617, 1278

deficiency appropriation for ordnance and

ordnance stores.... 221 , 221, 810, 1322, 1326

for contingent.............

791, 810, 813

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 510, 1212

draftsmen, etc., may be paid from

"Public works".

509, 1213

for new battery for " Newark"........ 793

for Fort Mifflin, Pa........

1304

for torpedo station....

1322, 1326

Bureau ofParliamentary Union (see Interna-

tional Parliamentary Union, Bureau

of) .

Bureau of Permanent Court of Arbitration (see International Bureau of the Per-
manent Court of Arbitration).

deficiency appropriation for public works,

Mare Island, Cal...

212

for maintenance....

221 ,

791, 810, 813, 1304, 1322, 1326

for contingent...

221, 1322

for repairs and preservation..

221 ,

793, 1303, 1303

for repairing, etc., dry dock "Dewey". 793

for Key West, Fla., naval station .

793

Bureau ofSoils (see Soils Bureau, Department
of Agriculture). Bureau of Standards (see Standards Bureau,

for Guam naval station..

793

for raising floating crane "Hercules".... 793

Bureaus ofthe Navy Department,

DepartmentofCommerceand Labor).
Bureau ofStatistics, Department ofAgriculture (see Statistics Division, Department

chiefs of, allowed highest shore-duty pay and allowances of rear-admiral......... 607
rank, title, and emoluments of staff officers

of Agriculture).
Bureau ofStatistics, Department ofCommerce and Labor (see Statistics Bureau, De-

serving as chiefs of, while on active

list...

607

commissions to be given.

608

partment of Commerce and Labor)..

Burglar Alarms, Public Buildings,

Bureau ofSteam Engineering, Navy,

appropriation for maintenance of elec-

appropriations for steam machinery.... 621, 1281

trical..

708, 1385

for materials, etc., yards and stations. 622, 1281 | Burgundy Pitch,

for incidental expenses....

622, 1281 on free list..

74

clerical, etc., services.

622, 1281 Burlaps,

for engineering experiment station... 622, 1281 duty on.

51

for steam machinery, new vessels .... 629, 1288 Burlington, N. C.,

for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 509, 1211 appropriation for public building at ..... 1368

draftsmen, etc., may be paid from

acquiring site for public building at, au-

"Steam machinery," etc........ 509, 1212

thorized .

* 691

deficiency appropriation for steam ma-

Burlington, N. J.,

chinery... 221, 791, 810, 1303, 1322, 1326 limit of cost increased, public building... 678

for Arthur Gamwell..

794 public building, open space requirement

for engineering experimental station.. 1303

reduced .

704

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, Navy,

Burlington, Vt.,

appropriation for provisions.....

619, 1278 appropriation forimprovement of harbor. 631, 934

profits from sales of stores allowed for

terms of court at ....

1127

amusement, etc. , of enlisted force.. 619 Burnt Starch,

commutation of rations...

619, 1278 duty on .

39

clerical, etc., services....

620, 1279 Burrstones,

for contingent ..

620, 1279 duty on manufactured ......

21

for freight....

620, 1279 on free list, in blocks, rough or unmanu-

permanent naval supply fund abol-

factured...

79

ished; transfer of balances.....

1279 Busbey, L. W.,

naval supply account to govern all

deficiency appropriation for services...... 805

stores..

1279 Business Methods, Executive Departments, etc.,

limit to general account of advances.. 1279 for clerks, etc., Navy Department... 510, 1212 deficiency appropriation for provisions... 221,
791, 810, 1322, 1326

appropriation for expert inquiries, etc., for

improving.. Bust of ChiefJustice Fuller,

703, 1363 ·

appropriation_for, with pedestal for Su-

for freight..

221, 810, 813, 1322, 1326-

preme Court room..

1427

for contingent....

221, 810, 813, 1303, 1322 Butchers' Knives,

for provisions to medical department... 1304 duty on.

27

money accounts to show directand indirect

Butler and Stoddard Counttes, Mo.,

charges included in cost of work.... 1267 may bridge Saint Francis River, Fisk.... 352

naval supply account established in.

792 Butler, Pa.,

charges and payments to be kept in .

792 construction of public building authorized

Bureau of Weights and Measures (see Interna-

at..

683

tional Bureau of Weights and Meas-

Butte, Mont.,

ures) .

terms of court at .

1118

INDEX .

xxxili

*2**

Bidler,

Page.

appropriation for inspection of manufac-

ture of process, etc..

420, 1239

duty on, and substitutes for.

36

cocoa..

36

Butter Knives,

duty on..

27

Bullon Forms,

duty on cloth.....

65

Buttons,

duty on .

65

collar, cuff, and dress, of silver, etc..

67

forms, cloth..

65

woolen...

54

Byron, Ill., dam authorized across Rock River near... 922

Byron Water Power Company, may dam Rock River near Byron, Ill...... 922

C.

Cabbage Seed,

duty on.

37

Cabbages,

duty on.

36

Cabin John Bridge, Md.,

appropriation for repairing, etc., aqueduct

across .

983

Cabinet Furniture,

duty on, wood .

34

Cabinet National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 Cabinet Woods,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.....

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only...... 81

Cable Cars, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by 364, 1336

substitution of wagon service author-

ized .

364, 1337

Cable City Bridge Construction Company,

changes allowed in bridging Arkansas

River, Dardanelle, Ark., by........ 189

Cable Companies,

held to be common carriers.......

545

charges to be just and reasonable; if un-

just, unlawful..

545

classification of messages .

545

contracts with carriers for exchange of

services allowed....

546

Cables,

duty on, hemp....

49

istle, Tampico fiber, etc.........

49

Cables, Electric, authorized across Galveston Channel, Tex. 372

Cables, etc.,

laying,authorized across Mississippi River,

Morgans Point, Ark., to Richard-

son, Tenn...

586

Cables. Telegraph, etc., duty on, composed of metal, rubber, etc. 24

Cabney, Parker, Omaha Allottee,

erroneous allotment to, canceled ......

278

Cacao,

on free list, crude...

74

fiber, leaves, and shells

74

Cache National Forest, Utah and Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247 Cache River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 651, 945 Caddo Lake, La.,

appropriation for construction of dam at.

foot of...

650

Caddo Lake, La. and Tex.,

preliminary examination to be made of,

for lock, etc ..

955

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-96

Cadets, Military Academy, appropriation for pay.

Page. 312, 1015

successors to be admitted after three years'

course of..

323

hazing regulations modified..

329

court-martial trials; effect of dismissal.. -324

disposal of pending cases .....

324

Cadillac, Mich.,

appropriation for public building.

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

686

Cadmium,

on free list .

74

Caine, A. C.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts.....

799

Cairo, Egypt, appropriation for agent and consul-

general..

337,1028

Cairo, I.,

telephone cable authorized across Missis-

sippi Riverto Bird Point, Mo., from. 380

terms of court at ..

1110

Cajeput Oil,

on free list..

77

Cakes,

duty on.

36

Calamine,

duty on; determination of..

31

Calcasieu River and Pass, La.,

appropriation for improvement of mouth,

etc.....

647

Calcium,

duty on, and alloys ...

29

Calcium Cyanamid,

on free list....

76

Calendar ,

duty on, lithographically printed ........ Calfskins,
duty on, bookbinders'...... tanned, or tanned and dressed ........

Calhoun, Guy K.,

maybeappointed professor ofmathematics,

Navy; rank, pay, etc ...

352

Calhoun, Tenn.,

bridge authorized across Hiwassee River,

between Charleston and......

187

California,

appropriation for stipport, etc., of In-

dians..

273, 1062

use of appropriations for Northern In-

dians to purchase lands for landless

Indians...

273

forsurveyor-general, clerks, etc...... for naval training station....
garbage crematory, etc.. deficiency appropriation for resurveys
San Diego County.... for naval training station... assigned to ninth judicial circuit.. California Débris Commission, appropriation for expenses.. deficiency appropriation for. California National Forest, Cal.,

517, 1219 609, 1269
1276
in 222 1304 1131
730, 1407 220

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

California Northern Judicial District,

additional judge allowed for...

1087

counties composing.

1107

terms of court..

1107

Sacramento..

589

California Southern Judicial District,

counties composing northern division.. 1107

southern division...

1107

terms of court.............

1107

San Diego.....

589

xxxiv

INDEX.

Calla Bulbs, duty on..
Calomel, duty on..
Caloosahatchee River, Fla.,

Page. 37
16

appropriation for improvement of....... 645, 941 preliminary examination of, to be made... 670
Calumet, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657

Calumet River, Ill. andInd.,

appropriation for improvement of; modi-

fications authorized....

657,947

bridge authorized across, at Chicago, Ill... 180

Calves,

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced .....

228

Campbells Island, Ill.,

bridge authorized across South Branch of

Mississippi River, Watertown to .... 964

"Cambria," Steamer,

change of name authorized..

234

Cambridge, Mass.,

bridges authorized across Charles River

between Boston and...............

933

Cambridge, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor

639, 937

Cambridge, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

687

Camden, Ark.,

bridge authorized across Ouachita River

at..

178, 1013

Camden, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

671

Camden, S. C.,

appropriation for public building .

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

688

preliminary examination of waterways to

Charleston from, to be made................. 675

Camel's Hair,

classification of, under Tariff Act ......................... 52

Cameos,

duty on, cut but not set

68

Cameron, Captain George H.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

778

Cameron, John J.,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices...

806, 1318

Camp Mohave Abandoned Réservation, Ariz., trust patents to Indians in, confirmed..... 858

Camphor,

duty on refined and synthetic...

13

on free list, crude, natural....

74

Canada,

appropriation for surveying and marking

boundary with Alaska......

343, 1033

for surveys, etc. , demarkation of boun-

dary between United States and. 344, 1033

for commission, etc., fisheries in con-

tiguous waters..

344, 1033

for arbitration expenses, international

boundary, Passamaquoddy Bay..... 344

for expenses arbitration of North At-

lantic fisheries dispute.....

765

for commission on boundary waters.. 766, 1364

deficiency appropriation for expenses, Saint John River Commission... 203, 1290

Canada-Continued.

Page.

consent of Congress to construction, etc., of

bridge across Saint John River, by

Maine and..

904

expenses for marking boundary in Passa-

maquoddy Bay, to be paid from ap-

propriation for arbitration commis-

gion....

775

Canadian Commission,

appropriation for preparing reports, etc.,

of....

343

Canadian Department ofPublic Works,

reimbursement for telegrams, Alaska cable

service.....

210

Canadian Electric Light Company,

deficiency appropriation for damages to

cable..

1302

Canadian Fisheries Convention,

appropriation for commissioner, etc., un-

der......

344, 1033

Canal,

construction authorized from Berrys Creek to Hackensack River, N. J....... 1082

Canal, Panama (see Isthmian Canal).

Canal Zone (see also Isthmian Canal).

appropriation for relief of shipwrecked

American seamen in..............

346, 1036

Canal Zone, Government of(see also Isthmian
Canal), appropriation for member of commission in

charge....

772, 1450

for officers and employees, department of

civil administration...

772, 1450

for labor, department of civil administra-

tion...

772, 1450

for materials, etc., department of civil

administration .....

... 772, 1450

for survey of lands in.

772

for salaries and expenses, sanitation de-

partment....

772, 1450

for relocating Panama Railroad.. 772, 1450

expenses to be from proceeds of

bonds......

772, 1450

employees and compensation re-

stricted to estimates, etc.. ...... 772, 1450

ten per cent interchangeable.. .... 772, 1451

allowance for longevity and lay-over

restricted ....

772, 1451

reimbursement of Panama Railroad for

marine or fire losses; no insurance to

be carried.

772

Panama Railroad Company to carry no

. insurance, nor pay for moneys ad-

vanced..

772, 1451

annual subsidy from Panama Railroad

not required...

772

funds from rents, postage, etc., appro

priated for civil expenses..

772, 1451

funds realized from services, sales,

etc., to be used for construction ex-

penses....

773, 1451

estimates to be accompanied by de-

tailed statement of employees, ma-

terials, etc., required....

773

sales of material without advertise-

ment, etc...

1451

settlement of claims for injuries, etc.,

to employees....

1452

no bond required of Panama Railroad

Company for furnishing services,

etc....

1452

deficiency appropriation for commissioner,

officers, and employees..

211

white-slave traffic provisions applicable

to

827

INDEX .

XXXV

Canals,

Page.

cooperation with water users under recla-

mation projects for, to deliver

water for irrigation....

926

report, etc., to be made on proposed, from

Ohio River to Lake Erie..

956

Lake Erie to Lake Michigan...

956

Anacostia River, D. C., to Chesapeake

Bay..

956

Canandaigua, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building...

1368

terms of court at.....

1120

Canary Seed,

on free list...

79

Canceling Machines, Postal Service,

appropriationfor rental or purchase of.. 360, 1332

amount for purchase..

360, 1333

rental contracts for three years.....

360

four years .

1333

deficiency appropriation for..

225

Candy, Sugar, duty on, not specially provided for........................ 34

Cane, Chair,

duty on rattan or reed.......

34

Cane, Seed,

on free list, for Department of Agriculture

or Botanic Garden ...

78

Cane, Sugar,

duty on .

34

Canes, Walking,

duty on.

71

on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for... 81

Canna Bulbs,

duty on.

37

Cannon, John J.,

deficiency appropriation for.....

801

Cannon, Honorable Joseph G., made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission...

898

Cannon, Mountain, Field, and Siege,

appropriation for purchase, etc., of.... 597, 1341

Cans,

duty on metal, lacquered, etc..

32

Canton, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

684

Canton, Miss.,

appropriation for public building..

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building ·

at, authorized...

686

Canton, S. Dak.,

appropriation for asylum for insane In-

dians...

284, 1072

Canyon County, Idaho, etc., may bridge Snake River, at Ontario, Oreg. 179
Canyon Snake River Wagon Bridge Commis-

sion,

may bridge Snake River, Payette, Idaho.. 1351

Cape Ann, Mass.,

appropriation for harbor of refuge, Sandy

Bay..

934

Cape Charles City, Va., appropriation for improvement ofharbor.. 639

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

954

Cape Fear River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Wilmington; contracts...... 641, 938, 1406

maintenance ..

642

at and below Wilmington........... 641, 938

for lighting..

754

for lights, etc., below Wilmington ... 1431

range lights authorized below Wilmington. 536

Cape Girardeau, Mo.,

terms of court of..

1117



Cape Lookout, N. C.,

Page.

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

674

Cape May, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of Cold

Spring Inlet...

1405

Cape Spartel and Tangier Light, Morocco, appropriation for annual contribution . 340, 1030
Cape Town, Africa, appropriation for foreign hospital ....... 346, 1036
Cape Vincent, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 634

Capitol,

appropriation fortrees, etc., forgrounds. 726, 1403

for repairs, etc .....

737, 1413

for cleaning, etc., works of art....... 737, 1414

plans, etc., for ice making and refriger-

ating plant to be submitted.

738

forimproving grounds...

738, 1414

for enlarging grounds..

738, 1414

acquiring specified squares to Union

Station; proceedings; expenses .. 738

for Capitol power plant.

1414

for lighting, and grounds..

738

for repairs to stable; etc..

739, 1414

for refrigerating apparatus for Senate and

House, etc....

1443

for subway transportation to Senate and

House Office Buildings...

1443

deficiency appropriation for general re-

pairs, etc. ............. 123, 212, 795, 889, 1306

for Senate kitchen and restaurant...

123,

212, 1316

for additional elevator service, Senate.. 123

for additional elevator service, House of

Representatives..

125

forlighting, and grounds....

795

for restoring east line of grounds; etc............ 795

for purchasing. outstanding plans of

building....

795

forGeorgeWashingtonmemorial window. 795

for House and Senate Office Buildings.. 795

for Sinclair-Scott Company....

890

for coal for heating, etc., plant....

891

coal for heating, etc., plant for, and Senate and House Office Buildings

to be paid from appropriations for

fuel and oil..........

891

for skylights over old library section... 1306

for care, etc., of grounds ...

1306

for completing power plant..

1306

for H. A. Vale, services to commission for

enlarging grounds.....

· 1307

Capitol Building and Grounds, Superintendent

of,

appropriation for, engineers, clerks, etc. 515, 1218

for laborers, etc.....

516, 1218

for engineers, etc., Senate:

472, 1174

for elevator conductors, Senate Office

Building.

472, 1174

for engineers, etc., House of Represen-

tatives...

474, 1177

for elevator conductors, House Office

Building....

474, 1177

duties of, extension of Capitol grounds to

Union Station ...

738

maytransfer discontinued supplies, etc., to

other offices or the District..

1011

member of board on office building for

bureaus, etc., in· Washington...... 699 Capitol Police,

appropriation for captain, lieutenants, and

privates.... for contingent expenses...

...... 473, 1175 473. 1175

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay...

127,804, 1317

xxxvi

INDEX .

Capitol Police-Continued.

Page. Caribou, Me.,

Page.

to be paid December, 1909, salaries, De-

cember 20....

871

December, 1910, salaries, December 21 . 1453

appropriation for public building..

1368

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

689

to receive June, 1910, salaries on day of

Caribou National Forest, Idaho and Wyo.,

adjournment..

886 appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 425, 1247

Capitol Power Plant,

Carlisle, Pa.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc .. duty of superintendent of meters..

1414 appropriation for Indian school; transpor-

1414

tation of pupils....

283, 1071

appointment of employees ..

1414

deficiency appropriation for completion... 1306

deficiency appropriation for Indian school

at.

223

for Elliott Woods, services...

1306 Carlson, Hans M.,

railroad siding.to, continued ....
Caps, duty on, blasting. bottle.....
percussion..

1443 relinquishment of homestead entry in Red

80282

Lake Reservation, Minn.; rights not

66

impaired .

292

32 Carnegie, Andrew,

66 acceptance authorized of gift for library at

Takoma Park, D. C. , from..............

290

Capsicum, duty on.

Carnegie Library, D. C., 39 appropriation for expenses......

380, 972

Capsules, duty on medicinal, etc., drugs in............................
Car-Truck Channels,
duty on iron or steel..

Carnegie, Pa.,

16 appropriation for public building.

1368

acquiring site and erecting public building

22

at, authorized..

687

Car Wheels,

Carpenters' Bench Knives,

duty on iron or steel......

29 duty on.

27

Caraway Seed, on free list..

Carpets,

79 duty on, Aubusson..

55

oil...

77

Axminster.

55

Carbolic Acid,

bockings..

55

on free list..

71

Brussels .

55

Carbon,

chain Venetian .

55

duty on articles of, not specially provided

chenille..

55

for...

19

cork..

49

porous pots for electric batteries..

19

druggets.

55

on free list, animal, fertilizer....

73

flax, hemp, jute, etc.

49

Carbondale, Pa.,

ingrain, tieble.

55

appropriation for public building..... 704, 1368

two-ply.

55

Carbons,

moquette..

55

duty on, for electric lighting..........

19

rugs, oriental, etc.

55

3333333355 2482N*

Carboys,

duty on glass, plain ..

19

on free list, American, returned from

Saxony.. tapestry Brussels.
velvet...

abroad....

72

Tournay velvet..

Card Cases, duty on leather....

three-ply.

68

velvet.

Card Clothing,

Wilton .

duty on iron or steel.....

25

wool, Dutch.

Card Laps, Cotton, duty on..

wool, flax, cotton, etc...

42

woven whole for rooms, woolen..

Cardamon Seed, on free list..
Cardboard,

Carrabelle, Fla.,

79 appropriation for improvement of bar and

harbor..

644

duty on.. Cards,

63 preliminary examination to be made of har-

bor...

954

duty on, lithographically printed .. playing..

62 Carrington, Frank de l., 64 may be appointed major, Army, retired.. 600

Carey Act,

Carroll, Jennie (widow),

appropriation for examination of desert

appropriation for monthly payments

lands under....

740, 1415

to

250, 1044

additional grant to Nevada under.

1417 Carrollton, Ga.,

lands in former Shoshone Indian Reservation may be selected by Wyoming

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

under..

288 Carrollton, Mo.,

former Uintah Reservation may be se-

appropriation for monument to General

lected by Utah under....

285

Shields in cemetery at......

723

provisions of, made applicable to aban-

Carrot Seed,

doned Fort Bridger, Wyo., Military

duty on...

37

Reservation ...

913 Carrotted Fur Skins,

selections by States under, of coal lands

duty on.....

67

subject to mining rights, permitted. 583 Cars,

temporary withdrawal of public lands,

facilities for exchange, return, etc., to be

pending applications under...

237

provided on through railroads...... 545

Caribbean Sea,

Carson National Forest, N. Mex.,

tonnage duty on vessels from South Ameri-

appropriation for maintenance, etc.,

can ports on...

111 ! of .

426, 1247

INDEX.

xxxvii

Carson, Nev.,

Page.

appropriation for Indian school........ 278, 1067

for damage to public road, etc..

278

for mint at....

497, 1199

deficiency appropriation for mint, wages,

etc...

206, 1292

terms of court at.

1119

Carter County, Okla.,

federal jail at Ardmore, transferred to;

conditions...

702

Cartersville, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

Cartridge Shells,

duty on empty.

66

Cartridges,

duty on.

66

Carving Knives,

duty on..

27

Casa Grande Ruin, Ariz., appropriation for custodian.................. . 742, 1417

Casanova, Pedro C.,

award of Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion to..

219

Casanova, Ricardo,

award of Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion to administrator of.....

219

Cascade National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1247

Casein,

on free list...

76

Cases,

duty on leather.

68

musical instrument.

70

needle.

Cash Registers,

duty on..

32

Casks,

duty on, empty..

33

on free list, American, returned from

abroad..

72

Casper, Wyo.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

684

Cassava, or Cassady,

on free list...

80

Cassia,

on free list, oil...

77

Cassia, Cassia Vera, and Cassia Buds,

on free list, unground ..

79

Cassiterite,

on free list; dutiable when native mines .

produce 1,500 tons a year.

80

Cast-Iron,

duty on, andirons

26

castings.

26

chiseled, etc..

26

hatters' irons .

26

hollow ware, coated, etc.

26

imalleable.....

26

chiseled, etc..

26

pipe...

25

plates.

26

chiseled, etc..

.....

26

sadirons ..

26

stove plates...

26

tailors irons. :..

26

vessels...

26

Castile Soap,

duty on..

16

Castings,

duty on, cast-iron.

26

chiseled, etc..

26

malleable iron .

26

steel.....

23

3222222

2 282 28

Castor Beans or Seeds,

Page.

duty on..

37

Castor Oil,

duty on..

14

Castor or Castoreum,

on free list..

74

Casts ofSculpture,

on free list, not for sale, for models or edu-

cational purposes..

79

Caswell Lumber Company, G. R.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

775

Catalogue of Scientific Literature, International,

appropriation for expenses, preparation

of..

718, 1395

for printing and binding.

768, 1447

Catalogue of Title Entries of Copyright Office,

appropriation for printing and binding.. 769, 1447

Catgut,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for.....

69

on free list, unmanufactured.

.74

Catlettsburg, Ky.,

appropriation for public building..... 704, 1368

terms of court at.

1112

Cattle (seealso Animal Industry Bureau, and

Animals),

appropriation for enforcing humane treat-

ment of export.....

420, 1239

for collecting information of diseases

of...

420, 1239

for quarantine stations for meat

420, 1239

for preventing diseases of...

420, 1239

foreradicating southern cattle ticks..

1240

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced..

228

duty on.

35

on free list, hair of, unmanufactured, not

specially provided for..

76

regulations to be made for free entry of,

straying across frontier, etc..

72

tick-infested, may be admitted into Texas

below quarantine line......

1240

Cattle, Special Report on Diseases of,

printing of revised edition ordered; distri-

bution..

1459

Cattle Ticks, Southern,

appropriation for eradicating............ . 420,1240

deficiency appropriation for eradicating... 1324 Cauliflower Seed,

on free list..

79

Causes ofDeath, International Commissionfor

Revising Classification ofDiseases and,

commissioners to be appointed to...

Caustic Potash,

·

on free list, not refined.

78

Caustic Soda,

duty on.

17

Cavalry, Army,

horseshoer and farrier to each troop; desig-

nation and pay established ..

245

Cave Hill National Cemetery, Louisville, Ky.,

exchange oflands with Cave Hill Cemetery

Company, authorized ..

236

reinterments, etc..

236

Caveats in Patent Office,

· abolished, and fee therefor..

843

on file not affected...

843

Caviar,

duty on..

37

Cayenne Pepper,

duty on..

39

Cayuse Indians, Oreg., appropriation for support, etc., of................ 283, 1071

Xxxviii

INDEX .

3333

33

Ceballos and Company, J. M.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ment of Court of Claims to ...

129

Cedar,

duty on, sawed boards, etc

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only...... 81

Cedar Bayou, Tex., appropriation for improvement of...... 650, 944

Cedar Rapids, Iowa,

terms of court at.

1111

Cedar, Red,

on free list..

81

Cedar Street NE., D. C.,

appropriation for subway and bridge, under Baltimore and Ohio Railroad

tracks ......

387

proceedings to condemn land for widening,

etc., for subway, bridge, etc ...

387

contribution by railroad company

387

share by street railway ..

388

Cedartown, Ga. ,

construction of public building authorized

at...

681

Cedrat Oil,

on free list..

77

Celilo Canal, bridge authorized across Columbia River

and, Celilo, Oreg..

230

right of way granted across lands of...

230

Celilo, Oreg., bridge authorized across Columbia River

and Celilo Canal at.....

230

Celluloid,

duty on .

13

Cellulose Esters,

duty on compounds of...

13

Cement,

duty on, hydraulic.

17

gypsum, etc ...

18

not otherwise provided for .

17

on free list, copper ..

74

Cement, etc.,

appropriation for investigating structural

materials of..

765, 1232

Cement Warehouse, D. C.,

appropriation for addition to.

975

Census, Director ofthe, to designate commissioners for revision of

classification of diseases and causes

of death ..

1

Census Office, appropriation for expenses; available until

June 30, 1912..

1,526, 1228

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

Twelfth Census .

812

commissioners authorized for Commission

on Classification of Diseases and

Causes of Death ..

1

payment to Alice V. Houghton..

1313

222

additional officialsauthorized duringdecen-

nial census period...

2

Assistant Director, duties.

2

appointment clerk, duties..

disbursing clerk, additional bond re-

quired .

2

compensation of officials during decennial

census period .

2

additional clerks, copyists, etc ....

messengers, watchmen, laborers, etc..

limit of clerks of classes two, three, and

222 33

four ..

pay for work on mechanical devices .

examinations to be prescribed by Direc-

tor...

3

Census Office- Continued.

Page.

additional clerks, copyists, etc.-Contd. examinations to be held in the States by Civil Service Commission.... persons with tuberculosis barred

not more than one of a family eligible..

temporary appointments ..

transfer of experienced employees from

ather offices; status:

3

temporary transfers to permanent force..

3

special agents, pay, etc., fixed .

126

Census, Thirteenth,

appropriation for expenses of; available un-

til June 30, 1912 .

1

census of population, agriculture, manu-

112 2 2 22223 

factures, and mines and quarries to be taken in 1910 ..
territory included in .

decennial census period determined .

reports to be completed and published within ..

additional executive force authorized in.

Census Office during.. duties of Assistant Director, appointment

clerk, and disbursing clerk... additional bond from disbursing clerk. salaries established during.
additional force of clerks and employees.

limit of higher grades ... pay of operators of mechanical devices...

subject to civil service examinations... examinations to be held in each State...

selections of eligibles according to law

of apportionment hereafter examinations to be made in

State where applicant resides ...

year's domicil necessary.



tuberculosis prsons not eligible; health certificate required ....

appointments limited to one in a family.

temporary appointments..

temporary transfers from other branches

of classified service..

3

fillling.vacancies in regular force by temporary employees during.

to terminate at expiration of..

schedules restricted ..

3, 227

of population..

3,227

nationality and mother tongue of for-

eign-born residents....

877

of agriculture...

4, 227

irrigation acreage added.

227

of manufactures, and mines and quarries. 4, 227

irrigation enterprises added ...

227

to relate to year ending December 31,

precedingenumeration ofpopulation 4, 228

census of manufactures confined to factory

system ..

4, 228

animals slaughtered for food..

228

hides produced ...

228

turpentine and rosin produced ; addi-

tional schedules .

4, 228

special agents authorized..

4,228

form, etc., of inquiries to be determined by

Director..

4, 228

supervisors to be appointed by President with advice and consent of the Senate.

4455 666

number; districts; duties...

compensation; method of payment . emergency, etc., allowances..

enumerators to personally obtain the infor-

mation required by the schedules.. classification, etc..

commission, etc..

33

INDEX.

xxxix

Census, Thirteenth-Continued.

Pago.

enumerators, etc.; division of enumeration

districts .

6

enumeration of institutions.

6

Central Dispensary and Emergency Hospital, Page. · D. C.,
appropriation for care ofindigent patients 408, 999 Central Vermont Railway Company,

removal of enumerators; correction ofreturns....
interpreters authorized; compensation.. compensation of enumerators; mileage,
etc.....

may bridge Missisquoi Bay, Lake Cham-

plain, Alburg to Swanton, Vt....... 1358

Ceramic Colors,

duty on.

15

6 Cereal Plants,

payment for services of deceased appointees....
special agents authorized; authority, compensation, etc..

appropriation for investigation of insects

7

affecting...

433, 1257

Cerium, Cerite, or Cerium Ore;

7 on free list..

74

to assist supervisors... compensation allowed ...
basis of, modified .. oaths to be taken by appointees. appointments solely for fitness..

7 Certificates ofIndebtedness, United States, 126 borrowingofmoney authorized on one year;

874

limit extended to $200,000,000.... 117

7 issue authorized for advances to reclama-

7

tion fund ...

835

commencement of enumeration of popula-

tion; termination...

7



punishment for receiving fee for appointment, etc..

neglect of duty, etc., by appointee . unauthorized communication of informa-

denomination; redemption; interest at

three per cent.

835

disposal of; subscriptions; limited to

$20,000,000 ..

835

exempt from all taxes..

835

appropriation for expenses of issue, etc.. 836

tion, etc..... making false statements, etc .. all persons to correctly answer inquiries... penalty for willful failure, false state-
ments, etc.



fund for redemption from reclamation

receipts after five years.

836

principal and interest of, payable in gold

coin ..

192

8 exemption from taxation.

192

668

information to be given from hotels, etc...

appropriation for expenses of issue, etc.... 192

penalty for failure, etc... manufacturing establishments, mines,
quarries, etc..

9 Certificates of Inspection, Steam Vessels,

issue of temporary, for use until regular

document is received ..

831

88 G

punishment for refusal, false answers, etc...

completion of voyage permitted when,

9

expires at sea, etc...

832

information from factories, etc., to be used only for statistical purposes...
reports to be kept confidential.. enforcement of fines and penalties.. authority ofDirector over traveling, contin-

666

Chadron, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building..

1368

acquiring site for^ public building at, au-

thorized..

690

terms of court at.

294,1118

22 55

gent, and other expenses..

9 Chain Carpets, Venetian,

to make requisitions for printing on Pub-

duty on..

55

A

lic Printer..

10 Chains,

mail matter to be transmitted free..

10 duty on fancy patterns of rolled gold plate,

penalty for unlawful use of penalty

silver, etc..

67

stamp....

10

iron or steel..

26

information to be furnished by Executive

silver, etc., jewelry...

67

A

Departments, etc.

10 Chair Cane,

census of agriculture and live stock to be

duty on rattan or reed.....

34

taken in 1915 and every ten years

Chalk,

after..

10 duty on, prepared in any form...

13

schedules; enumerators.

10 on free list, crude, unmanufactured, etc.. 74

copies of population and agricultural re-

Challis National Forest, Idaho,

turns to be furnished States, Territories, or courts.. genealogical, etc., data to individuals.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1247. 10 Chalmette National Cemetery, La., 10 acceptance of conveyance of land for..... 723

existing laws continued, if not herein

Chamberlain, S. Dak.,

amended..

· 10 bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 903

repealing clause. Centennial Celebration of Perry's Victory on
Lake Erie,

11 Chambersburg, Pa.,
appropriation for public building....... Chamizal Tract,

1368 ·

appropriation for memorial and aid to .... 1081 appropriation forarbitration oftitle to, with

Centennial of Mexican Independence,

Mexico..

1034

commission created to attend celebration

Chamois Skins,

of.

882 duty on.

68

deficiency appropriation for expenses... 775 Chamomile,

Central America,

on free list, oil ..

77

tonnage duty on vessels from ports in.....

ill Champagnes, duty on..

40

Central Bridge Company,

Chandlers River, Me.,

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Council Bluffs, Iowa, by.....

853 Channels,

Central City, Colo. ,

duty on iron or steel...

22

land granted to the Odd Fellows of, for

car-truck.

22

cemetery..

892 Chanute, Kans.,

subsurface mineral rights retained ..

892 appropriation for public building ..... 685, 1368

xl

INDEX .

Chapa, Rafael,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for.

801

Chaplain,

appropriation for House of Representa-

tives..

473, 1176

for Senate.

468, 1170

Charcoal,

duty on, not specially provided for...... 13

Charcoal Iron,

duty on, bars, blooms, etc .. tubes, pipes, etc.

Chargés d'Affaires ad interim,

appropriation for..

337, 1028

deficiency appropriation for salaries .

223,

226, 774, 811

Charitable Associations,

exempt from corporation tax, if not for

profit....

113

Charities and Corrections, D. C., appropriation for Board of Charities.. 405, 997 for reformatories and correctional insti-

tutions .. for medical charities..
for child-caring institutions . .. for temporary homes. for indigent insane. for relief of the poor.. for transporting paupers .

406, 997 407, 999
409, 1000 410, 1001
.410, 1002 411, 1002 411, 1002

Charleroi, Pa.,

appropriation for public building....

1368

Charles City, Iowa.,

appropriation for public building..

1368

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

689

Charles River,

bridges authorized across, Cambridge to

Boston, Mass........

933

Charleston, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 643, 938

for improvement of waterway between

Alligator Creek and...

643,938

for navy-yard, public works..

1275

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

675

of waterways from Orangeburg to be

made....

675

Columbia and Camden..

675

terms of court at..

1123

Charleston, Tenn. ,

bridge authorized across Hiwassee River,

between Calhoun and...

187

"Charleston," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.

621

Charleston, W. Va., appropriation for public building .

704, 1368

for rent.

704, 1368

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc..

207

limit of cost increased, public building. 679

terms of court at ..

1129

Charlotte Harbor, Fla., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 670

Charlotte, Mich., appropriation for public building ....... 1369

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

690

Charlotte, N. C.,

appropriation for assay office at........ 498, 1201

for public building..

1369

enlargement, etc., of public building at,

authorized; cost..

693

amount for fiscal year..

693

terms of court at.

186, 1120

Charlotte, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor 634, 935

2286

Charlottesville, Va.,

Page.

terms of court at.

1128

Charms,

0000 +

duty on, china, etc. , decorated, etc.

18

china, etc., not decorated, etc ..

18

silver, etc., jewelry ....

67

Charts,

duty on, not specially provided for....... 64

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc.; limit..

74

for the United States or Library of Con-

222

gress .

73

hydrographic ..

73

printed more than 20 years,

73

Chatham County, Ga., and Beaufort County,

S. C.,

may bridge Back River branch of Savannah

River at Savannah, Ga....

180

Chattahoochee River, Ga. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of.......

644

forimprovement of, below Columbus, Ga. 939

Chattanooga, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of Tennes-

see River above and below...

652

bridge authorized across Tennessee River

at.

908

to Hill City.

908

offices of Chickamauga and Chattanooga

Park to be in .

293

terms of court at .....

1124

time extended for lock and dam in Ten-

nessee River at...

181

Checkers or Draughts,

duty on ivory, bone, etc........

66

Checks, Certified,

receivable in payment of customs and

internal-revenue taxes; condition .. 965

Cheese,

duty on, and substitutes for..

36

Cheese Knives,

duty on.

27

Cheesequake Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of. ..... 636,936

Chefuncie River, La., appropriation for improvement of........ 647

Chehalis River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of................ 665,951 Chelan National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of.. 426, 1248 Chelsea Creek, Mass.,
preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Chelsea, Mass.,

appropriation for public building ..... 704, 1369

time extended for treating fire sufferers in

marine hospital...

183

Chelsea Naval Hospital, Mass.,

dredging channel for Island End River,

across grounds of, authorized ........

369

Chemical and Physical Researches, Public Do-

main,

appropriation for..

743, 1418

researches of presence of potash salts .. 1418

Chemical Compounds, Mixtures, and Salts,

222

duty on, not specially provided for...

12

containing alcohol..

minimum rate.

12

Chemical Wood Pulp,

duty on; countervailing duty......

61

Chemicals, Oils, and Paints,

Schedule A, Tariff of 1909 ..

12

Chemistry Bureau, Department ofAgriculture,

appropriation for salaries....

431

for chemist, clerks, etc.

1254

for inspectors, laboratory helpers, etc... 1254

for general expenses..

431, 1255

INDEX .

xli

ChemistryBureau,DepartmentofAgriculture- Page. | Cheyenne_River and Standing Rock Indian Page.

Continued.

Reservations- Continued.

appropriation for inspecting food products

for export...

431, 1255

for executing pure-food law.

432, 1255

purchase price increased.

196

appropriation for purchase of school sec-

tions; amount increased..

196

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses...

215

for enforcing pure-food law.

224

Chenille,

forexpenses ofappraising, etc.; reimburs-

able ..

196

sale, etc., of intoxicants prohibited for 25

years..

197

duty on articles of cotton...... carpets..
silk, not specially provided for.. Chequamegon Point Light Station, Wis.,
exchange of right of way from keeper's dwelling to, authorized ..
Cherokee Indians (see also Five Civilized Tribes),
appropriation for expenses, leasing lands of for.tribal schools..
funds arising from sales of lands, etc. , of, may be deposited in banks...

47 55 57
924
281 282 1070

Cheyenne River Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

appropriation for benefit of Indians on,

from tribal funds..

284, 1072

sale of lands to Milwaukee Land Company

on, for townsite..

602

payment; use of proceeds.

602

reservation for public uses..

602

construction ofbuildings, etc......

602

time extended for paying installments for

lands on opened portion of....... 266

forfeiture on failure.

266

commutation allowed..

266

approval of Secretary of Interior; use of

fees, etc., required; issue of patent.

266

interest...

1070 disposal of unsold lands.....

266

Cherokee, N. C.,

Cheyenne, Wyo.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 279, 1067 grant of public lands to; payment.

291

Cherokee Shoals, S. C.,

term ofcircuit court of appeals at..

1133

dam authorized across Savannah River at. 922

Cheroots,

duty on tobacco .....

35 .

appellate proceedings from Colorado,

Utah, Wyoming, and New Mexico to

be heard at Denver or.

1133

Cherries,

terms of district court at.

1130

duty on, green or ripe....... Cherry Juice,
duty on.

37 ChicagoandWesternIndianaRailroadCompany, may bridge Calumet River at Chicago, Ill. 180
41 Chicago Great Western Railroad Company,

Cherry Seedlings, duty on Mahaleb or Mazzard..

may bridge Mississippi Riverat Saint Paul,

37 .

Minn ..

907

Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company, deficiency appropriation for ....
Chesapeake Bay, report, etc., to be made on proposed canal from Anacostia River to .

Chicago, Ill.,

798 appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice .

495, 1197

forimprovement of harbor.

657

956

forwaterway to Mississippi River by way

Chess Balls, duty on ivory, bone, etc..
Chessmen, duty on ivory, bone, etc........
Chester River, Md.,

ofIllinois and Desplaines rivers from

66

Lockport...

659

for electrical burglar alarm, public build-

66

ing at.

708

for marine hospital, elevator.

710

appropriation for improvement of...... 639, 937 Chester River, Pa.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 675 Chestnut TreeBark Disease,
appropriation for study, etc., of..................... 1264

for enforcing anchorage regulations in

harbor....

712, 1389

for Confederate Mound, Oakwood Ceme-

tery...

724, 1400

for public building.

1369

Chewing Tobacco, Domestic,

packages, marking, etc., required for fine

cut....

108

plug.

109

internal-revenue tax on..

109

giving lottery orders, etc., with, forbidden. 110

deficiency appropriation for assistant treas-

urer's office .

1292

acquiringsite for post office at, authorized. 689 bridge authorized across Calumet River at 180

contracts for improvement of harbor at, au-

thorized; limit..

947

Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indian Reservation, Okla. ,

sale of agency, etc., lands on former, under

homestead laws..

533

dumping refuse in Lake Michigan opposite,

unlawful; penalty....

593

term ofcircuit court of appeals at.

1133

terms of district court at..

1110

proceeds to credit of Indians.
payments; issue of patents, etc.. patent in fee to James F. Rowell .

533 Chicago, Indiana and Southern Railroad Com-

533

pany,

534 may bridge Grand Calumet River, at East

repealed

887

Chicago, Ind..

178

Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians, Montana,

Chicago, Kansas City and Texas Railway Com-

Northern,

pany,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with.. 277, 1066

for fine riders ...

277, 1066

time extended for bridging Missouri River, Kansas City to Sibley, M^., by............. 198

Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians, Okla., appropriation for support, etc., of.. 280, 1069
sale of agency and school lands, El Reno, for masonic orphanage, authorized .. 190
Cheyenne River and Standing Rock Indian Res-

Chicago River, I.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts..

658, 947.

preliminary examination of West Branch,

South Fork, to be made.

671

ervations, S. Dak. and N. Dak.,

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park,

sections 16 and 32 granted to South and

appropriation for continuing establishment

North Dakotas for schools....

196

* of.

724, 1401

xlii

INDEX .

II

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Page. | ChiefofEngineers-Continued.

Page

Park-Continued.

to approve proposed obstruction of navi-

conveyance of strip of land to N. C.

Steele

1401

gable waters within the city of New

York..

866

appointment, etc., ofcommissioners. office at Chattanooga; pay...
commission ofArmy officers to examineand

293 Chief ofStaff, Army,
293 appropriation for Army War College..... 243, 1037 Chief of Division of Militia Affairs to

report on advisability, etc., of per-

manent Army maneuvering ground,

ranges, etc., near..

1457

be detailed from general officers of

the line.

1037

for military information division ex-

Chickasahay River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of; main-

tenance ..

647

penses... for service schools.
for chief clerk, etc.

244, 1037 244, 1037 246, 1040

Chickasaw Coal Lands,

for Division ofMilitia Affairs, office of... 1206

relinquishment of old, and grant of new,

Chiffons, Silk,

under lease of Denison Coal Com-

duty on articles made of.

60

pany . Chickasaw Freedmen, Okla.,
appropriation for paying, for remnant allotments
deduction from awardsto Choctaws and Chickasaws ofamount for allotments

832 Child-Caring Institutions, D. C.,

appropriation for...

409, 1000

acceptance of voluntary aid authorized ... 409

281 Children, Alien,

under 16 unaccompanied by parent, ex-

cluded admission.

264

to....

281 Children's Books,

deficiency appropriation for Court ofClaims

judgment in case of..

807

Chickasaw Indians, Okla. (see also Five Civil-

ized Tribes),

appropriation for tribal schools..

282

deficiency appropriation for indemnity for

losses.

223, 1327

amounts paid for allotments to Chickasaw freedmen to be deducted from award

to..

281

duty on, lithographically printed ..........

63

Children's DressGoods,

duty on, woolen, cotton, etc., warp ..

54

not specially provided for..

54

Children's Guardians, D. C., Board of,

appropriation for administrative ex-

penses...

409, 1000

for salaries.

409, 1000

forfeeble-minded white and colored chil-

dren...

409, 1000

contracts with, for administering tribal af-

for board, etc., of children.

409, 1000

fairs subject to approval of Secretary

of Interior....

1070

limit on, for legal services; approval of

President required :

1070

deficiency appropriation for board, etc.,

of children.

122, 787

for sectarian institutions.

1298

Children's Hospital, D. C.,

funds arising from sales of lands, etc., of,

may be deposited in banks....

1070

approval of Secretary of Interior; use of

interest..

1070

payment from funds of, to Saint Agnes

Academy....

282

Douglas H.Johnston, governor.

282

Chickasaw Nation,

deficiency appropriation for Court ofClaims

judgment in case of.

807

Chickasha, Okla.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

terms of court at.

1122

Chicle, -

duty on.

14

Chico, Cal. ,

appropriation for public building.

1369

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

684

appropriation for care of indigent tients......
for additions, etc..
Chile, appropriation for minister to...
for secretary of legation............. Chillicothe, Mo.,

pa408,999 731. 1408
337, 1027 337, 1028

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

terms of court at; rooms required.................. 587,1117 Chilocco, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 280, 1069

China,

appropriation for minister to......

337, 1027

for Chinese secretary of legation... 338, 1028

for secretary of legation.. for second secretary..

337, 1028 338, 1028

for assistant Chinese secretary.

338, 1029

for student interpreters ...

339, 1029

for cost of tuition..

339, 1030

Chicory Root, duty on..

for interpreters at consulates ...

346, 1035

39

for marshals, consular courts......... 346, 1035

Chicott Pass, La.,

appropriation for lighting..

754

ChiefJustice ofthe Supreme Court ofthe United

States,

appropriation for...

529, 1232

salary increased..

1152

to designate and assign circuit judges to

Commerce Court..

540, 1146

to designate temporary judge to hold district court in absence of the circuit

for expenses of American prisoners.. 346, 1035 for purchase of land, consulate at Amoy. 347

admission of two subjects of, into Military

Academy, authorized ...

1456

China Clay,

duty on..

18

China, Famine in,

use of transport to take supplies forrelief of. 919

appropriation for expenses..

919

China Mattings,

judge or justice..

1089 duty on..

49

ChiefofEngineers, Army, duties relating to construction of dams
across navigable waters. to adjust claims for damages, collisions with
river.and harbor vessels ..

China, United States Courtfor,

appropriation for salaries and expenses. 343, 1033 593 Chinaware,

duty on, decorated, etc..

18

676

not decorated, etc ...

18

88

INDEX .

xliii

Chincoteague Bay, Va., appropriation for inland waterway to Delaware Bay from......
Chinese Blue,
duty on..... Chinese Exclusion,

Page. 639 15-

appropriation for enforcing laws....... 764,1442

deficiency appropriation for enforcing..... 224, 812, 1324

jurisdiction ofdistrict courts in cases under. 1094 Chinese Plague,

appropriation for prevention of epi-

demic .....

717, 1394

Choctaw Coal Lands, Okla.,

Page.

additional area added to lease of Savanna

Coal Company.

832

relinquishment of old, and grant of new, lands under lease of Denison Coal

Company...

832 .

Choctaw Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes),

appropriation for tribal schools..

282-

for fulfilling treaties with.

282, 1070

amounts paid for allotments to Chickasaw

freedmen to be deducted from award

to.......

281

Chip, duty on, braids, laces, etc.... hats, bonnets, and hoods... manufactures of, not specially provided for.....
Chipola River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of upper and lower.... preliminary examination of to be made..
Chippewa Indians, Michigan, claims of Saginaw, Swan Creek, and Black River bands, referred to Court of Claims.... advancement on docket....
allowance for attorneys' fees.....
Chippewa Indians, Minnesota,

contracts with, for administering tribal

64

affairs subject to approval of Secre-

64

tary of Interior..........

1070

limitation on, for legal services; approval

69

of President required..

1070

funds arising from sales of lands, etc., of,

may be deposited in banks....

1070

941

approval of Secretary of Interior; use of

670

interest.....

1070

Choctaw Nation,

deficiency appropriation for Court of Claims judgment in case of......... 807
829 Choctawhatchee Bay, Fla., 829 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 670
829 Choctawhatchee National Forest, Fla., appropriation for maintenance, etc., of... 426

appropriation for advance interest; repay-

ment....

276

for civilization, etc., of, from tribal

funds..

276, 1065

for annual celebration, White Earth

band of....

276, 1065

Choctawhatchee River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of..... 646, 942

bridge authorized across, between Pensa-

cola and River Junction, Fla....

233

time extended for, damacross, Dale County,

Ala....

905

for burial, etc., of two tribal members dying in Washington, D. C.......
for expenses of members of White Earth

Cholera,

582 appropriation for prevention of epi-

demic....

717, 1394

band sent to Washington, payable

Choptank River, Md.,

from tribal funds.......

1065 appropriation for improvement of ....... 639, 937

pine lands, disposal of unsold timber.... 862 Chosen (see also Korea),

advertising provisions, etc., modified.. 862 appropriation for interpreters at consulates

homestead entries of lands unsold after

in.

1035

reoffering...

862

for marshals, consular courts....

1035

payment for timber in addition to

for expenses of American prisoners.... 1036

price for land .....

862

for wages of prison keeper....

1036

estimating amount.. National Forest excluded...

862 Chowan, River, N..C., 862 preliminary examination to be made of... 954

payment from tribal funds to Tay-cum-e-

Chromate ofIron,

ge-shig alias William G. Johnson.... 330 on free list..

74

village site for Winnibigoshish band re-

Chrome or Chromium Metal,

served in Minnesota......

863 duty on...

30

Chippewa Indians ofLake Superior, Wis., appropriation for support, etc., of.. 287, 1076

deficiency appropriation for support .. 1323, 1327

Chippewa Indians of the Mississippi, Minne-

sota,

appropriations for schools.

276, 1065

Chippewa Indians, Turtle Mountain Band, N. Dak.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 279, 1068

Chiricahua National Forest, Ariz. and N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Chisolm Company,

deficiency appropriation for.......................

1293

Chloride ofLime,

duty on..

12

Chloroform ,

duty on..

13

Chlorophyll,

duty on.

13

Chocolate,

duty on..

39

Chocolate Bayou, Tex.,

hoppropriationforimprovement of....... 650, 944

   

Chrome, Yellow, Green, and all Chromium

Colors,

duty on..

15

Chromic Acid,

duty on..

12

Chromic Ore,

on free list.

74

Chronometers,

duty on, and parts thereof..

31

Chucawalla Development Company,

may dam Colorado River at Pyramid Canyon, Ariz.; intake at Black Point.. 909
protection of Indian rights, etc.. ...... 909

Chugach National Forest, Alaska,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 426, 1248

Cicero, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1369

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

689

Cider,

duty on..

36

Cigar Bands,

duty on, lithographically printed......

62

xliv

INDEX .

Cigarette Books, etc.,

Page.

duty on...

70

Cigarettes, Domestic,

packages required for; quantity allowed.. 109

affixing and canceling stamps..

110

applicable to imported...

110

internal-revenue tax on...

110

distinction between cigars and.

110

giving lottery orders, etc., with, forbidden. 110

Cigars, Cigarettes, and Cheroots,

duty on..

35

· special provisions för, imported from

Philippine Islands...

84

Cigars, Domestic, new boxes required for; quantity allowed . 109

punishment for violations...

109

sales permitted retail dealers...

109.

internal-revenue tax on....

110

distinction between cigarettes and..

110

giving lottery orders, etc., with, forbidden. 110

Cinchona Bark,

on free list..

73

alkaloids or salts of..

78

Cincinnati, Ohio,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office...

495, 1198

pneumatic-tube mail service authorized .

for; contracts.....

1356

term of circuit court of appeals at.

1133

terms of district court at..

1122

Cinematograph Pictures,

duty on negative films for....

70

positive films for..

70

Cinnamon,

on free list, oil...

77

chips, unground...

unground..

79

Cipher Code, Department of State,

deficiency appropriation for preparing;

reappropriation.....

1289

Circuit Courts,

appropriation for circuit judges..... 529, 1233

for clerks of circuit courts of appeals. 529, 1233

for messenger, etc., eighth circuit court

of appeals..

529.1233

abolished on taking effect of Judicial

Code ....

1167

transfer of all records, files, moneys, etc.,

to clerks of district courts .

1167

to become part of files, etc. , of district

court..

1167

powers, etc., of clerks transferred to clerks

of district courts...

1167

pending suits to be continued in district

courts.....

1167

powers, duties, etc., devolved upon dis-

trict courts..

1167

appeals from revocation of licenses to

customhouse brokers to be brought

in....

465

finality of decision..

465

customs cases pending in, transferred to

Court of Customs Appeals........ 107, 1145

jurisdiction in actions under employers'

liability act..

291

concurrent with State courts.

291

jurisdiction in appeals from Board of Gen-

eral Appraisers to cease ..

106

to compel attendance, etc., for corpora-

tion tax information...

117

precedence given to important antitrust

and Interstate commerce cases ;

composition of court, etc .....

854

proceedings in, to compel payment of Interstate Commerce Commission or-

ders ...

554

828

2842

Circuit Courts ofAppeals,
appropriation for clerks... for books for libraries of..

Page. 529, 1233 530, 1233

for travel, etc. , expenses of judges at-

tending

750

deficiency appropriation for law books for. 1311 created in each circuit; constitution of... 1131

appointment of judges; salaries; allotment

of Supreme Court Justices to sit in.. 1131

assignment of district judges to make up

full court; disqualification..

1132

procedure, etc.; service of district marshals. 1132

clerks and deputies.....

895, 1132

annual terms; designated in certain places. 1132

appeals, etc., in Georgia, Texas, and Ala-

bama..

1133

from Beaumont, Tex., to New Orleans... 1133

Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, or New

Mexico to Denver orCheyenne...... 1133

courtrooms; leases permitted...

1133

jurisdiction to review final decisions of

district courts; exceptions..

1133

decisions final in designated cases...

1133

to entertain appeals from injunctions, . etc., of district courts...
proceedings on appeal.. inbankruptcy cases.... in ninth circuit to hear appeals, etc.,
from United States court for China..
additional powers of judges......

1134 1134 1134
1134 1134

to review judgments, etc., Arizon,a and

New Mexico supreme courts..

1134

effect of judgments in Alaskan cases.... 1134

certification of questions to Supreme

Court.......

1134

appeals, etc., may be heard at San

Francisco, Portland, or Seattle..... 1135

customs cases pending in, transferred to

Court ofCustoms Appeals......... 107, 1145

cases submitted to Supreme Court for in-

structions by....

1157

certiorari from Supreme Court for review of

final judgments of...

1157

appeals and writs of error allowed to Su-

preme Court from..

1157

jurisdiction in appeals from Board of Gen-

eral Appraisers to cease..

106

provisions to diminish expenses of pro-

ceedings in writs of error and ap-

peals..

901

filing ofprinted transcripts, etc......... 901 . Circuit Judges,

appropriations for, including designations

to Commerce Court.....

529, 1233

deficiency appropriation for additional,

for Commerce Court...

890

designation of, for Commerce Court serv-

ice

540, 1146

first appointments; periods of service.. 1147

may be designated to hold district court

when necessary..

1089

Circuits, Judicial, constitution of districts of the States into..
allotment of circuit judges to..... Chief and Associate Justices of-Supreme Court....
Circular-Saw Plates,

1131 1131
1131

duty on, steel..

25

Citizens Dying Abroad,

duty of Auditor for State, etc., Depart-

ments over effects of, transmitted by

consuls....

1083

Citizenship,

certificates of, may be issued in certain

cases without proof declarative of

intention......

831

INDEX .

xlv

Citric Acid, duty on.

Page. 12

Citron or Citron Peel,

duty on....

38

Citronella or Lemon Grass,

on free list, oil..

77

Citrus Fruits,

appropriation for investigating insects

affecting..

433, 1257

City and Surburban Railway, D. C.,

removal of tracks, etc., from Michigan

Avenue NE ...

371

extension of tracks on Monroe and Twelfth

Streets to District line..

371

to extend underground system on North

Capitol Street .

231

penalty for failure...

231

City Delivery Division, Post-Office Depart-

ment

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc....

520, 1222

City Delivery, Postal Service,

appropriation for letter carriers; -restric-

tion..

361, 1333

for substitute, auxiliary, and temporary

carriers..

361, 1333

fornew offices...

361, 1333

for horse hire and vehicles; contracts. 361, 1333

for carfare and bicycles..

361, 1333

forstreet-car collections...

361, 1333

for marine service, Detroit; contracts.... 361

for Detroit River service...

1333

for incidental expenses..

361, 1333

for special delivery..

361, 1333

for supplies......

365, 1338

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex-

penses...

224, 812

for supplies...

812, 1327

allowed by consolidation of two offices in

any city, etc., having revenue of

$10,000..

911

compensatory time off, allowed for Sunday

labor by carriers in first or second

class offices....

1339

four-year contracts allowed for canceling machines, vehicles, street-car collections, and Detroit River service.... 1333

City Refuse, D. C., appropriation for disposal of.... contracts for five years authorized..
Civet, on free list, crude................ oil...

389,980 389
74 77

Civil Rights,

jurisdiction of district courts in suits in-

volving, etc....

1092

Civil Service Commission,

appropriation for Commissioners, secre-

tary, clerks, etc.....

483, 1185

administration of oaths...

483

forfield force, examiners, etc.....

483, 1185

for rural carrier examining board .... 483, 1185

details from executive departments

forbidden.....

483, 1185

transfer of employees....

483, 1185

for expert examiners.........

1186

fortraveling, etc., expenses.

483, 1186

for contingent expenses..

516, 1218

for rent.....

516, 1219

for printing and binding for...

768, 1446

deficiency appropriation for traveling, etc.,

expenses..

1290

for rent..

1305

for moving, office equipment, etc.

1305

ten-year lease of building for, authorized.. 795

Claiborne, Md.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 639, 937

Claims,

appropriation for expenses, defending suits

in...

747, 1424

for defense in French Spoliation.... 748, 1424

for defense in Indian depredation.... 748, 1424

forpaying letter carriers".

865

deficiency appropriation for paying awards

of Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion...

129, 218, 807

for defense in Indian depredation

213

forjudgments, Indiandepredation. 218,808,1320

for paying Court of Claims judgments

in..

218, 807, 891, 1319

for paying, certified by accounting off-

cers .

219,808, 1320

for defending suits in.

798

by citizens, for losses in Samoa, 1899, to be

ascertained...

592

Court of Claims to determine, of Omaha

Indians....

580

Otoe and Missouria Indians.

580

for pay for unlicensed use ofinventions by

United States to be brought in Court

of Claims..

851

proceedings in Court of Claims under

Tucker Act..

837

conclusions of court as to character of

demand, and amount due, to be

reported..

838

time extended for filing, for property taken

from Confederate soldiers...

883

for refunding stamps on foreign bills of

exchange....

120, 779, 1291

Claims against United States,

concurrent jurisdiction of district courts

with Court of Claims in..

1093

provisions in Judicial Code as to jurisdic-

tion of Court of Claims in .

1135-1143

Claims Commission, Spanish Treaty,

deficiency appropriation for paying awards

of..

218, 807

Claims, Samoan,

appropriation for investigating, growing

out of naval operations at Apia..... 1034

Clapboards,

duty on..

33

Clark, Honorable Champ,

designated a member of commission to re-

arrange Hall of the House of Repre-

sentatives..

1444

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission...

898

Clark, Edward T., deficiency appropriation for services... 803, 1316

Clark Lines, Texas and New Mexico Boundary,

reaffirmed, etc ....

1454

Clark, Phoebe,

deficiency appropriation for.........................

1296

Clarksburg, W. Va., terms of court at .

1014, 1129

Clarksdale, Miss.,

appropriation for public building..

1369

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

686

terms of court at; rooms required............. 932, 1116

Clarksville, Tex.,

construction of public building authorized

at.

683

Clasp Knives,

duty on..

26

65

Clasps,

duty on button...................

65

xlvi

INDEX.

Classification Division, Post Office Depart- Page. ment,

appropriation for superintendent, special

agents, etc...

520, 1222

for per diem special agents..

521

Classification, etc., ofPublic Lands,

temporary withdrawals of public lands to

be reserved for....

847

Classification ofDiseases and Causes ofDeath,

International Commission for Re-

vising,

commissioners to be appointed to.....

1

Classification, etc., Interstate Commerce,

just and reasonable, to be determined by

commission on complaint .

551

enforcement; continuance..

551

new, may be examined by commission.

552

suspension until decision..

552

through joint, may be established by com-

mission on failure of carriers..........

552

filed by carriers with commission, to be

preserved as public records.....

555

Clatskanie River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 663

Clay, Alexander S., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

of...

1314

Clay Center, Kans.,. appropriation for public building........ 1369

Clay County, Ark.,

may bridge Current River....

195

time extended for bridging Black River, at

Bennetts Ferry.....

588

Clays,

duty on,, china or kaolin

18

unwrought, not specially provided for... 18

wrought, not specially provided for....

18

on free list, common blue, for crucibles.... 74

Gross-Almerode glass-pot....

74

Clays, etc.,

appropriation for investigating structural

materials of...

765, 1232

Clearwater Harbor, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of channel

through Boca Ceiga Bay to Tampa

Bay...

644, 941

preliminary examination to be made of.... 954

Clearwater National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Clearwater River, Minn.,

appropriationfor constructingbridgeacross,"

on Old Red Lake Agency Road..

276

location modified .

1065

Cleaves, Thomas P.,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

of...

1314

Cleburne, Tex.,

appropriation for public building............

1369

Clem, Colonel John L.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts ..

778, 778, 1300

Clerk Hire, Members, Delegates, and Resident Commissioners,

appropriation for...

478, 1180

accorded to Resident Commissioners from

the Philippines...

910

Clerk ofthe House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for, clerks, etc..

473, 1176

deficiency appropriation for compiling

contested election cases...

805

statement of expenses in elections of Mem-

bers to be filed with, by political

committees.....

823

by other persons..

824

Clerk ofthe Supreme Court, appointment... 1152

bond; deputies; fees, etc ..

1152

Clerks and Janitors to Committees, House of Page.

Representatives,

appropriation for...

474, 1177

Clerks and Messengers to Committees, Senate,

appropriation for... Clerks at Consulates,

469, 1171

appropriation for...

346, 1035

deficiency appropriation for..

223

Clerks at Embassies and Legations,

appropriation for.. deficiency appropriation for..

338, 1029 -774

Clerks, Messengers, etc., Army,

appropriation for, at headquarters, etc. 246, 1040
dutyin War Department forbidden, 247, 1041 Clerks to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives, annual.....

474, 1177

session....

475, 1178

Clerks to Senators,.

appropriation for...

472, 1174

deficiency appropriation for..

1315

Clerks, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees....

750, 1426

deficiency appropriation for fees..

224,

227,799, 812, 814, 1311, 1324, 1327

for Commerce Court..

890

allowance of salaries for additional clerks

for naturalization purposes only..... 830

payment for services from September 27,

·

1906, to June 30, 1907..

830

appointment for Commerce Court; salary,

etc ....

-540, 1147

deputy, for circuit court of appeals author-

ized ...

895, 1132

appointment, duties, etc..

895, 1132

one to be appointed for each district..

1087

deputies authorized; appointment, duties,

etc ..

1087

restriction on appointing, as receiver or

master ..

1105

Cleveland National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc.; of. 426, 1248

Cleveland, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

... 653, 728

for public building, rent............

704

for improvement of new harbor entrance,

etc ..

728,729, 1405

deficiency appropriation for public building, furnishing..
terms of court a..
CliffStone, on free list, unmanufactured.
Clinch River, Va. and Tenn.,
appropriation for improvement of.. time extended forbridging...... Clinton River, Mich.,

205 1121.
79
652 330

appropriation for improvement of.. .... Clock Cases,
duty on china, etc., decorated , etc .. not decorated, etc......
Clock Dials,
on free list, white glass enamel for................ Clock Movements,
duty on.... Clocks,
duty on, not specially provided for...... Cloth,
duty on, cotton .. determination of..
cotton, etc., and silk.
cotton, figured, etc... cotton, mercerized, etc.. cotton, not specially provided for. cotton oilcloth . cotton table damask..
cotton tracing ..

655,947
18 18
76
31
31
42 46 46 47 47 48 46 48 46

0000 - - ********

INDEX.

xlvii

Cloth-Continued.

Page.

duty on, cotton window hollands.

46

flax, etc.... ................

51

gunny .. ......

51

hair press .

67

shirting, flax, etc..

51

silk.

57

silk-striped sleeve linings..

46

silk stripes....

46

tracing...

46

waterproof, cotton, etc ..

50

woolen, not specially provided for..

53

on free list, silk bolting..

73

Clothing, Army, appropriation for.......

257, 1052

for indemnity for destroyed, etc..... 257, 1053

deficiency appropriation for........ 220, 225, 1321 for relief of sufferers, Louisiana storm... 789

Clothing, Marine Corps, appropriation for.....

626, 1285

484 27 3 88888887 8

Clothing, Ready-Made,

duty on cotton, etc ..

47

silk....

60

woolen, not specially provided for....

54

Cloves,

on free list, unground .

79

stems, unground.

-79

Club Creek, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of........................ 643

Coal,

duty on bituminous ...

65

briquettes.....

coke........ ...........................

65

culm ...

65

fuel compositions of.......

65

shale...

65

slack..

....

65

on free list, anthracite...

74

drawback on, used by American ships in

foreign, etc., trade..

65

Coaland Transportation, Navy, appropriation for fuel, handling, maintenance of depots, water, etc...... 613, 1273

deficiency appropriation for...................... 1303, 1322

Coal, Anthracite,

deficiency appropriation for refunding

duties on..

219, 1321

Coal Depots, Navy, appropriation for establishing........... 613, 1273
CoalLands, entries allowed under homestead and

desert-land laws of surface of........ 583

selections permitted States under Carey

Act of surface of ..

583

withdrawals permitted under reclamation

act of surface of.......

583

limit of desert-land entries..

583

pending entries, etc., may be perfected

with coal rights reserved....

584

applications to be made subject to coal

reservations..

584

patents to contain reservation of coal

rights....

584

disposal of coal rights..

584

right to enter, etc.......

584

damages to occupants oflands, etc..

584

mining coal for domestic use permitted

prior to disposal.....

584

right to deny classification not abridged... 584

within temporary reservations for power

sites, etc., not open to occupation,

etc..

847

Coal Lands, Oklahoma Indian, lease of Choctaw lands to Savannah Coal

Company extended ....

832

to Denison Coal Company relinquished,

and one for other land made.

832

Coal Mines, Alaska,
appropriation for inspecting, etc...... Coal Stores,
on free list, of American vessels; unloading forbidden......

Page. 742.
74

Coal-Tar,

duty on, dyes or colors....

13

" other products, not colors or dyes or medícinal, not specially provided for.. 13

on free list, crude...

74

NE

pitch of..

74

productsof, not medicinal, colors, ordyes. 74

Coals, Lignites, etc.,

appropriation for testing, etc.......

742, 1419

tests for outside parties; charges, etc... 1419

investigations of, transferred to Bureau of

Mines .....

370

Coast and Geodetic Survey,

appropriation for; advances..

755, 1432

for field expenses, Atlantic and Gulf

coasts, etc....

756, 1432

for Pacific Ocean surveys............ 756, 1433

transportation of Filipino employees to

Manila, etc.....

756, 1433

forhydrographic researches, etc...... 756, 1433

for offshore soundings, Coast Pilot,

etc ..

756, 1433

for magnetic observations, etc.. for points to State surveys.. for special surveys......... for miscellaneous...

756, 1433 756, 1433 756, 1433 756, 1483

for delegate, International Geodetic As-

sociation...

756, 1433

for vessels, repairs, etc... for vessels, officers, and men..

756, 1433 756, 1433

for Superintendent, assistants, etc ... 757,1433

for office force...

757, 1434

for office expenditures... for printing and binding for.. deficiency appropriation for party
penses...
for general expenses.. for J. S. Hill.

757, 1435 769, 1447
ex224, 227 224, 1324 1314

Coast Artillery, Army,

appropriation for equipment of Organized

Militia with....

1045

Coast Artillery School, Fort Monroe, Va.,

appropriation for incidental expenses... 244, 1038 for materials, apparatus, etc............. 244, 1038
Coast Pilot,

appropriation for compiling..... Coasters Harbor Island, R. I.,

756, 1433

appropriation for naval training station,

maintenance...

609, 1269

for Naval War College, maintenance.609, 1269

for training station, public works ...

617

deficiency appropriation for naval training station..... .791

Coastwise Trade,

restriction on, by vessels built in United

States of foreign materials not pay-

ing duty......

88

Coat Linings,

4X

duty on woolen, cotton, etc., warp ...

54

not specially provided for..

54

Cobalt,

duty on oxide of..

13

Cobalt and Cobalt Ore,

on free list....

74

Coca Leaves,

duty on...

14

Cocaine, etc.,

duty on.

14

Cocculus Indicus,

on free list...

74

Cochetopa National Forest, Colo. , appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

xlviii

INDEX .

Cochineal,

Page.

on free list..

74

Cocoa,

88

duty on .

39

powdered, unsweetened ..

39

on free list, crude .....

74

fiber, leaves, and shells .

74

Cocoa Butter or Butterine, etc.,

8 22 88EE

duty on.

39

Cocoa Fiber,

duty on mats.

70

mattings...

70

Cocoanuts,

duty on meat of..

3B

oil, refined...

39

on free list, in the shell and copra..

77

oil, not refined or deodorized..

77

Coconino County, Ariz.,

lands granted to Arizona to pay bonds is

sued by.

573

Coconino National Forest, Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 426, 1248

grant of lands for Lowell Observatory

in

452

Cod-Liver Oil,

duty on.

14

Cody, Wyo. ,

appropriation for public building..

1369

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

693

Coe, W. P. ,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 127

Coeur d'Alene, Idaho,

appropriation for public building..

1369

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

684

terms of court at.

928, 1109

office of deputy clerk..

928

Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation, Idaho,

deficiency appropriation for classifying

lands, etc., of...

213

for allotments..

811

survey and allotment work on, may be

paid from sum for classifying, etc.,

lands..

797

Coeur d'Alene Indians, Idaho,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 275, 1063

Coeur d'Alene National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. ,

of...

426, 1248

Coffee,

appropriation for experiments in Porto

Rico of cultivating..

438

duty on substitutes for, not specially pro-

vided for...

39

on free list...

74

Coffeyville, Kans.,

appropriation for public building......... 1369

Cogged Ingots, Steel,

duty on.

23

for railway wheels or tires.....

29

Cohasset, Mass. ,

preliminary examination to be made of,

harbor..

953

Coinage,

deviation permitted in weight of silver

coin...

1354

standard troy pound of the Bureau of

Standards recognized as authority

for....

1354

Coins,

appropriation for recoinage of gold .... 713, 1390

for recoinage of minor...

714, 1390

deficiency appropriation for transporting

fractional silver .

225, 777

for transporting minor..

777

Coins- Continued.

Page.

principaland interestofUnited Statesbonds and certificates to be paid in gold .. 102

Coins, Foreign Gold,

issue ofgold certificates for deposits at New

York or San Francisco of...

965

Coins, Metallic,

on free list..

74

Coir, and Coir Yarn,

on free list.....

74

Coke,

-duty on.

65

Colbert and Bee Tree Shoals Canal, unexpesenedeRdivbearlatnocbeefoursiemdpfroorv.i.n..g.T.e.n.n..es- 871

Cold Spring Inlet, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of........ 1405 Coldwater River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 647, 942

Cole, Major Henry G.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

779

Collar, Cuff, and Dress Buttons,

duty on silver, etc......

67

Collard Seed,

160g50

duty on..

37

Collars and Cuffs, Shirt,

duty on cotton..

linen...

Collbran, Colo. ,
granted lands for public park............. Collections of Art, etc.,

200 86

on free list, by States, societies, etc. , not

for sale; conditions...

81

produced more than 100 years before

importation..

82

Collectors of Customs,

appeals from decisions of, to be forwarded

to board of general appraisers.....

98

decisions of, as to duties, etc., final unless

written appeal made in fifteen days

after liquidation .

100

disbursements for construction of public

buildings by......

1387

no additional compensation for.

1387

to ascertain actual market value and

wholesale prices of goods, etc., in

country whence imported .....

97

Collector's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries....

376,968

for extra labor preparing tax-sale certifi-

cates, etc..

376, 969

College, Army War,
appropriation for expenses.. for maintenance..
Colleges, etc.,

243, 1037 258, 1053

on free list, books, etc., for; limit.

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for...

78

works of art, etc., for presentation to... 81

Collets,

duty on cotton, etc....

48

Colliers, Naval (see Naval Auxiliaries).

Colliers, Navy Fleet,

construction of two, authorized; cost.... 628, 1287

contracts; eight-hour law, etc..

628

limit of cost increased for collier to be

built in Pacific coast navy yard .... 1288

appropriation for construction of, hereto-

fore authorized..

629

reappropriation of amount for Pacific

coast construction.....

629

Collinsville, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1369

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

685

INDEX.

xlix

Collisions,

Page. | Colored Women and Children, D. C., National Pago.

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

Homefor,

for damages by vessels, etc., in river

appropriation for care of children in... 410, 1001

and harbor work ..

1301 Coloringfor Liquors,

with navals vessels..

1302 duty on..

13

claims for damages, with lighthouse ves-

Colors,

sels, to be adjusted by Secretary of

duty on, artists'.

16

Commerce and Labor...

537

coal-tar...

13

with naval vessels, to be adjusted by

not specially provided for..........................

15

Secretary of the Navy...

607

used for céramic, etc. , articles..

15

damages from, by vessels in river and harbor work to be paid for; limit...
Collisions ofVessels,

Columbia Hospitalfor Women, etc., D. C.,

676 appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients...

408, 999

regulations for preventing, extended to

forrepairs to building...

408, 999

motor boats..

462 Columbia Institution for Deaf and Dumb,

lights, whistles, and fog-signals required.. 462

D. C.,

Collodion, duty on..
Cologne, duty on..

appropriation for instruction expenses.. 398, 989

13

for maintenance..

398,746, 1422

for repairs.....

746, 1422

16

for new dairy barn, etc..

1422

Colombia, appropriation for minister to...

337, 1027

designation changed to Columbia In-

stitution for the Deaf...

1422

for secretary of legation.... for installment to, 1910.. Colonies ofForeign Countries,

337, 1028 deficiency appropriation for repairs, etc.... 796

345

for rebuilding western dormitory.

1309

Columbia National Forest, Wash.,

extension of tariff schedules to, by procla-

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

mation of President.....

82 Columbia Polytechnic School, D. C,

Colorado, appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

deficiency appropriation for instruction,

etc., for the blind............

1298

etc..
deficiency appropriation for surveys. assigned to eighth judicial circuit..

517, 1219 Columbia River,

124 appropriation for improvement of, below

1131

Portland, Oreg.; contracts.... 664, 950

grant of Grand Junction Indian school to;

conditions.....

273

Fort Lewis Indian school; conditions... 274

homesteaders' time to makeresidence, etc.,

in, extended ....

189,904

leave of absence allowed..

189,904

for improvement of, at the mouth.... 664, 950

for gauging....

664, 950

for improvement of, from the Willamette

to Vancouver, Wash..

664, 950

for improvement of, at Cascades..

664

for improvement of, from The Dalles

lands granted to towns and cities in, for

parks....

459

Rapids to Celilo Falls, Oreg. and

Wash ..

664, 951

sale of public lands to, for State Agricul-

tural College; price..

847

selection ..

847

for improvement of, and tributaries,

above Celilo Falls....

664, 951

for improvement of, between Wenatchee

Colorado Judicial District, terms of court...
Colorado National Forest, Colo. ,

and Bridgeport, Wash..

665

1108

for improvement of, between Bridgeport

and Kettle Falls, Wash..

665

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

for lighting..

754

Colorado Railroad Company,

granted right of way on Fort D. A. Russell

Reservation, Wyo......

1012

Colorado River,

boundary of Oregon and Washington in,

consented to by Congress...

881

bridge authorized across, Bridgeport,

Wash ..

293

appropriation for protecting lands from

Celilo, Oreg..

230

overflow of..........

883

Grant and Kittitas counties, Wash..

600

dam authorized across, near Parker, Ariz. 1081

Pyramid Canyon, Ariz.; intake at Black

Point...

909

Hell Gate, Wash..

415

Northport, Wash..

1351

preliminary examination to be made of

Colorado River Indian Reservation, Colo.,

Oregon Slough branch of.......

956

appropriation for pumping plant for irri-

gation......

273

deficiency appropriation for town site

expenses; reimbursable....

880

allotment of irrigated lands to Indians on,

increased ....

1063

appropriation for costs, etc..

1063

advances a lien on allotmentfor charges. 1063

satisfaction, etc.....

1063

Colorado River, Tex., preliminary examination to be made of.. 955

Colorado Springs, Colo. ,

appropriation for public building.

1369

Columbia River Quarantine Station,

appropriation for hospital...

710

Columbia Road, D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extending.. 242

appropriation for expenses....

242

deficiency appropriation for widening.

783

Columbia, S. C.,

appropriation for public building........ 1369

acquiring site for public building at, au- .

thorized ....

692

preliminary examination of waterways to

Charleston from, to be made.

675

terms of court at.............

1123

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677 Columbus, Ga.,

"Colorado," U.S. S.,

terms of court at.................

1109

appropriation for repairs.. Colored Pencil Leads,
duty on......

620 Columbus, Ind.,

appropriation for public building..

1369

70 limit ofcost increased, public building...... 677

88740°-vol 36, PT 1-11-97

1

INDEX .

Columbus, Ohio,

Page.

appropriation for public building.

1369

for rent...

1369

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent...

889

limit of cost increased, public building. 678

terms of court at.

1122

Columns,

duty on iron or steel ..

22

Colville Agency, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at...

286, 1074

Colville Indian Reservation, Wash.,

appropriation for fourth installment for

ceded lands of; reimbursement.... 286

for fifth and last installment for ceded

lands of......

1075

allotments in severalty under general pro-

visions to Indians in........

863

Colville National Forest, Wash.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 426, 1248 Comanche Indian Reservation, Okla.,

allotments to children born since June 5, 1906, from pasture reserve lands.... 861

time extended for payments due by home-

steaders on ceded lands of................

266

Comanche Indian School, Okla.,

right of way granted across lands of..

588

Comanche Indians, etc., Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of, from

tribal funds ..

280, 1069

sale of unallotted, etc. , lands on reser-

vations of....

1069

Combination Suits,

duty on cotton, etc ..

48

Combinations in Restraint of Trade,

purchases of structural steel, armor, etc.,

for ships of the Navy not to be made

from....

1289

Combs,

duty on horn, or horn and metal.............

70

silver, etc., jewelry ....

67

Comfits,

duty on..

38

Commerce and Navigation,

vessels entering otherwise than by sea ex-

empt from tonnage duty if not

imposed in foreign port......

234

Commerce Court, United States, appropriation for salaries and expenses... 1234

detailed statement of expenditures to

be submitted to Congress.

1234

deficiency appropriation for additional cir-

cuit judges for...

890

for allowance for expenses of judges..

890

for salaries, clerk, marshal, etc ..

890

for rent, contingent expenses, etc.

890

created...

539, 1146

jurisdiction enforcing orders of Interstate

Commerce Commission..

539, 1148

enjoining, etc., orders thereof... 539, 1148

preventing unjust discriminations by

railroad carriers ....

..... 539, 1148

in interstate-commerce mandamus pro-

ceedings..

539, 1148

limited to present circuit-court pow-

ers ...

539, 1148

over foregoing classes, exclusive..... 540, 1148 of circuit and district courts over classes

not enumerated, continued .....540, 1149

to be a court of record ; seal..

540, 1148

composition; designation of first service 540, 1147

subsequent service .

540, 1147

presiding judge.... expense allowance ..

540, 1147 540, 1147

22 2588

Commerce Court, United States Continued. Page.

additional judges for, to be appointed.. 540, 1147 assignment to circuit-court duty.. 540, 1147

precedence and succession; quorum .. 540, 1147

court officials, offices, salaries, etc .. 540, 1147

fees and costs; accounting.....

540, 1147

permanently open; sessions, regular and

special; travel, etc., expenses.... 541, 1147

temporary assignment, etc., of judges to

circuit duty..

541, 1148

powers of judges, issue of process, pro-

cedure, etc..

541, 1148

filing of petitions; service of copies; hear-

ings, etc..

541, 1149

taking evidence; practice and proce-

dure...

542, 1150

opening of court..

542

appeals to Supreme Court..

542, 1150

not to supersede decree unless Supreme

Court so direct..

542, 1150

in interlocutory injunctions..

542, 1150

priority of..

542, 1150

suits to enjoin, etc.; orders of commission

to be brought against United

States.

542, 1149

temporary suspension of orders to pre-

vent irreparable damage... time limit; extension ...

543, 1149 543,1149

United States substituted for Interstate

Commerce Commission in all suits,

etc ...

543, 1150.

to intervene when public interests in-

volved .

1150

cases controlled by Attorney-General... 543, 1150

special attorneys, etc. , to assist; compen-

sation..

543, 1150

appearance of Commission, etc.... 543, 1150

parties interested may intervéne; rights

of intervenors..

543, 1151

complainants before Commission may

appear...

544, 1151

prior to opening of court continued,

etc....

544, 1151

pending, transferred ; exception..... 544, 1151

status of; records, etc., to be trans-

mitted...

544, 1151

common carriers to designate agents in

Washington for service, etc.....

544

posting if none designated...

544

interstate-commerce regulations amended. 544

Commerce, Foreign (see Foreign Commerce).

Commerce, Internal and Foreign,

appropriation for experts, etc., procuring

facts relative to ..

526, 1228

Commerce, Interstate (see Interstate Com-

merce).

Commerce, Unlawful Restraints of (see Anti-

trust Cases).

Commercial Agreements under Tariff of1897,

Reciprocal,

notice of termination of, to be given foreign

countries.....

83

Commercial Directory, International,

appropriation forprintingand binding; sale. 769

Commercial, etc. , Interests,

appropriation for expenses, advancement

of......

484, 1186

for employment in divisions of Depart-

ment of State, etc..

484, 1186

deficiency appropriation for expenses nego-

tiating..

119

Commercial Reciprocity with Cuba,

not affected by Tariff Act.............

83

Commissary-General (see Subsistence Department, Army).

INDEX .

.li

Commissary-General's Office, War Department, Page.

appropriation for clerks, etc.

502, 1204

Commission, Canadian Joint High, appropriation for preparing reports, etc., of. 343

Commission, International Prison, appropriation for annual subscription, etc.. 342

Commission, National Monetary,

publications of, to be printed .as public

documents..

217

Commission, National Waterways,

continued until March 4, 1913; additional

duties, etc...

956

expenses of employees, etc., allowed from

appropriations for...

130

Commission ofFine Arts,

appropriation for expenses .

371, 728, 1405

officer in charge of buildings and grounds

to be secretary, etc. .....

728

created; composition ..

371

to advise upon location, etc., of statues,

etc., in public squares, streets, and

parks, D. C.....

371

Capitoland Library of Congress excepted. 371

secretary, etc., authorized; expenses...

371

services of, in connection with memorial to

Abraham Lincoln, Washington, D. C. 898

Commission on Canadian Boundary Waters,

appropriation for expenses of joint..... 766, 1364

Commission on Railroad Corporation Stocks and Bonds,
appointment by President authorized... 556 duties; experts, assistants, etc., authorized. 556

details from departments and bureaus to

assist...

556

expenses, limit..

* 556

deficiency appropriation for expenses .. 774, 1271

Commission on Universal Peace,

appointment authorized, scope, etc.............. 885

limit to expenditures; report.....

885

Commiss· ion to Investigate Employers' Liabil ity and Workman's Compensation,

created; composition; report...

884

employment of experts, etc..

884

recommendations of advisable legislation.. 884

appropriation for expenses; limit.

884

powers and authority..

885

deficiency appropriation for expenses..

1315

Commissioner-General ofImmigration,

duties under White Slave Traffic Act..

826

Commissioner ofLight Houses,

appointment, salary, etc.

537

to perform duties of Light House Board.... 538

Commissioners, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees, justices of peace act-

ing as..

750, 1426

deficiency appropriation for fees... 224, 812, 1325 Commissions,

officers on Army retired list to receive, for

advanced rank...........

347

retired officers of Army, Navy, and Marine

Corps, to receive, for advanced rank

when promoted ...

1354

Commissions, International (see International

Commissions).

Committee on Cuban Relations, Senate,

deficiency appropriation for assistant

clerk..

803, 1316

Committee on Claims, Senate,

deficiency appropriation for digest, etc.,

private claims by; printing orders.. 803

Commodities, Cost of

appropriation for securing information of,

affecting tariff, etc...

703, 1363

Common Carriers (see also Interstate Com-

merce Regulations, and Railroads).

Common Carriers, Railroad,

Page.

accidents to be reported monthly by, in interstate and foreign commerce.. 350

penalty for failure......

351

compliance with interstate commerce laws,

Commerce Court to issue mandamus

writs to compel.....

1149

jurisdiction of circuit courts in actions for injuries to employees...
concurrent with State courts....
survival of rights to heirs... safe locomotive boilers to be used by.
inspection, etc.....
safety appliances required on cars used by. penalty for violations..
defective cars may be hauled forrepairs by. risk of carrier..
liability forinjury to employees. chains limited to cars with live stock and
perishable freight... moving, except for repairs, forbidden...
penalties, etc.. special licenses allowed for lading or unlad-
ing bonded merchandise carried by. unjust discriminations by, Commerce Court
to hear suits to prevent.....

291 291 291 913 914 298 299 299 299 299
299 299 299
899
1148

to designate agent in Washingtonfor service

in interstate commerce cases...

544

pipe lines for oil, etc., considered as..

544

telegraph, telephone, and cable companies

considered as......

544

railroads between States, etc.......

545

subject to interstate commerce regula-

tions ..

545

except for business wholly in one State.. 545

express and sleeping car companies, con-

sidered as..

545

contracts with telegraph, etc. , companies

for exchange of services allowed..

546

classification of property by, to be just and

reasonable.....

546

including regulations, etc.

546

facilities for handling, etc., baggage... 546

storage, delivery, etc.....

546

unjust declared unlawful..

546

to furnish switches, etc., in interstate traf-

fic on application.....

547

enforcement by Interstate Commerce

Commission....

547

long and short haul provisions..

547

schedules of rates without notice of effec-

tive date, unlawful..

548

penalty for noncompliance with regula-

tions for...

548

failingto give, or misstating, rates, etc.,

for shipments...

548

violations of interstate commerce regula-

tions by carriers, officers, etc., a mis-

demeanor; penalty.

549

punishment for unlawful discrimination

in rates, etc....

549

issuing false billing, classification, etc., by,

to give less than regular rates, a mis-

demeanor..

549

punishment for...

549

complaints against, for violating interstate

commerce regulations to be filed

with Commission..

550

notification to carrier; effect of repara-

tion....

550

investigation by Commission, on failure

to satisfy complaint..

550

rates, etc., by, to be determined by Com-

mission on complaint.....

551

enforcement; continuance.

551

lii

INDEX .

888888888

Common Carriers, Railroad-Continued.

Page.

classifications, etc., by, to be determined

by Commission on complaint ....

551

enforcement; continuance..

551

joint rates, etc., by, to be determined by

Commission on failure of agree-

ment..

551

new classifications filed by, Commission

may determine propriety of...

552

suspension until decision...

552

new rates filed by, Commission may deter-

mine propriety of.....

552

suspension until determination.......

552

since January 1, 1910, burden of proof on

carrier....

552

through routes, and joint classifications and

rates may be established by Commis-

sion on failure of.

552

water connection included ..

552

exception, electric lines not carrying

freight.....

552

transportation wholly by water.

552

to embrace entire length of railroad.

552

shipper's choice to be observed ; billing,

etc..

553

of competing lines...

553

disclosing information of shipments by,

unlawful; exceptions...

553

penalty for...

553

facilities, etc., furnished by shippers to be

paid for by.....

553

required to comply with orders of Inter-

state Commerce Commission .....

554

schedules, tariffs, contracts, etc., filed with Commission by, to be preserved as

public records....

555

receivable as evidence, etc..

555

annual reports from, period changed; pen-

alty for failing to submit.....

556

monthly, special, or periodical reports may

be required of .

556

Commutation of Rations, Volunteers,

appropriation for..

737, 1413

Companies, Joint Stock, excise tax levied on net incomes of........ 112

Compensation in lieu of Moieties,

66 appropriations for, customs service...... 716, 1393 Component Material of Chief Value."

definition of, in tariffclassification....

71

Composition Metal,

on free list, of copper, etc., not specially

provided for...

75

· Compositions,

duty on fuel, of coal ......................

65

Compounds,

duty on alcoholic ...

12

spirituous...

40

Compton Creek, N. J., appropriation for improveemmeent of....... 636, 936

Comptroller of the Currency, appropriation for, deputies, clerks, etc.. 490, 1192

for expenses, superintendent, etc..... 490, 1192

for special examinations, etc..... 491 , 1192

payments to employees on emergency cur-

rency, legalized ....

204

transfer of appropriations from Secretary's

office to redemption of national cur-

rency...

1290

Comptroller of the Treasury, appropriation for, assistant, law clerks,

etc..

488, 1190

deficiency appropriation for clerks, etc.... 204

Conard, Paymaster Charles,

credit in accounts for suspended naval ra-

tion money allowances..

1352

Conception, Drugs, etc., to Prevent, importation of, prohibited ..... entry forbidden; seizure, etc .... punishment for aiding, by officials..
procedure for seizure, etc...... Concord, N. H.,
appropriation for public building.. terms of court at... Concordia, Kans.,

Pago. 86 86 86 86
704 1119

construction of public building authorized

at.

681

Condemned Stores, etc.,

proceeds from sales of, to be communicated

separately to Congress, and not in

Book of Estimates....

773

Conduit Road, etc., D. C.,.

appropriation for laying 12-inch water

main in...

412

division of receipts from assessments.. 412

Conecuh River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 646, 942 preliminary examination of, to be made... 669

Confectionery, duty on, not specially provided for................... 34

Confederate Army or Navy, census inquiries to be made of survivors of..

Confederate Mound, Oakwood Cemetery, Chi-

cago, Ill.,

appropriation for care, etc., of..

724, 1400

marking graves in, excluded.

875

prohibition repealed ....

882

Confederate Soldiers,

time extended for presenting claims for

property taken from...

883

Confederate Soldiers and Sailors,

time extended for marking graves of, who died in northern prisons . ...... 875, 1453

Oakwood Cemetery excluded .

875

civilian prisoners included...

875

compensation of commissioner..

875

central monuments to be erected when iden-

tification of exact place impossible.. 1453

payment of contracts for..

1453

extended to Oakwood Cemetery, Chicago,

Ill...

882

Confederate Veterans' Reunion, Little Rock, Ark. ,
loan of tents, etc., for.... Confederate Veterans' Reunion, Mobile, Ala.,
loan of tents, etc., for.... Congaree River, S. C.,

1456 876

appropriation for improvement of....... 643, 938

Congress,

appropriation for reporting debates and

proceedings, House of Representa-

tives...

477, 1180

for reporting debates and proceedings,

Senate....

473, 1175

for printing and binding for..

768, 1446

allotment for publications of Immigra-

tion Commission; sale, etc.

768

deficiency appropriation for printing and

binding....

806

action of, required before approval of con-

tracts affecting Indian tribal funds,

etc...

808

allotment for printing and binding in-

creased ...

217

claims reported by Court of Claims to, continued until acted upon......
constitution of Arizona to be submitted to, for approval...
of New Mexico to be submitted to, for
approval.....

1143 571 560

INDEX.

liii

Congress -Continued . proceedings in Court of Claims in claims transmitted from, underTucker Act.
Congress Heights, D. C., appropriation for extending water trunk mains to.....
Congress, International Railway, appropriation for payment of quota.......

Page. 1138 412 343

Conservation of Navigable Waters, etc.-Con. purchases of land; consent of State legislatures; title..... timber and mineral rights may be re-
served; regulations for removing, etc. sales of agricultural tracts not needed for
public uses.. limit; State jurisdiction resumed ...

Page. 962 962
962 963

Congress of Refrigeration, International, invited to meet in United States...

rights, etc., subject to provisions of this

886

Act...

963

Congress on Alcoholism, International,

appropriation for expenses of delegates,

etc ..

1034.

lands purchased to be permanently re-

served as national forest...

963

divisions to be designated...

963

Congress on Hygiene and Demography, Inter-

national,

appropriation for expenses, etc....... 341, 1034

invitation to States to participate in Fif-

teenth...

873

tobe held in United States in 1911 or 1912.. 874

Congress on Social Insurance, International, invited to meet in United States.......... 1034

jurisdiction of States over persons con-

tinued, except for United States

offenses...

963

five per cent of receipts to be paid toStates. 963

use for county schools and roads...

963

distribution; maximum...........

963

appropriation for expenses of commission. 963

immediately available, etc......... 963

Congressional Directory,

Conservation ofPublic Lands,

appropriation for compiling, etc....... 473, 1175 Congressional Documents and Reports,

temporary withdrawals from settlement,

etc., by the President...

847

reserved sets of, discontinued ....

868

reserved for power sites, irrigation,

Congressional Employees,

classification, etc...

847

salaries for December, 1909, to be paid

continuance until revoked by the

December 20....

871

President or act of Congress..

847

for December, 1910, to be paid Decem-

ber 21 ...

1453

mining rights continued...

847

other than coal, oil, gas, and phos

to receive June, 1910, salaries on day of ad.

journment...

886

phates.....

847

oil and gas, claims not impaired..

847

Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

status of asserted claims...

847

gress).

Congressional Record,

appropriation for reporting debates, House

of Representatives....

477, 1180

for reporting debates, Senate..

473, 1175

homestead and desert land entries, etc.,

excepted .....

848

creation or enlargement of forest reserves

in certain States prohibited ................ 848

except by act of Congress.....

848

for printing and binding for......... 768, 1446 annual report ofwithdrawals to be made by

Conneaut, Ohio,

Secretary of the Interior......

848

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

Consignee,

contracts..

653, 946 deemed owner of imported merchandise... 91

for public building.

1369 holder of indorsed bill of lading deemed... 91

acquiring site for public building at, au-

underwriter recognized as, of abandoned

thorized...

691

goods......

91

Connecticut,

declaration to be made by, with invoice of

assigned to second judicial circuit....... 1131

goods actually purchased.

93

Connecticut Judicial District,

not actually purchased .

93

terms of court...

1108

punishment for false..

95

Connecticut River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Hartford; contracts.....

633, 934

for lighting...

754

Constantinople, Turkey, appropriation for steam launch for em-

bassy.....

340, 1030

Constitution of the United States,

bridge_authorized across, between Old

nothing repugnant to, permitted in consti-

Saybrook and Old Lyme.....

228

tution of Arizona....

569

Connellsville, Pa.,

ofNew Mexico......

558

appropriation for public building........... 1369 proposed amendment authorizing levying

limit ofcost increased, public building.... 678

of taxes on incomes..

184

Conoby Creek, N. C.,

Construction, etc., Material, D. C.,

preliminary examination to be made of... 954 appropriation for; reimbursement.

975

Conservation of Navigable Waters, etc.,

Construction of Vessels,

agreement between States for, authorized. 961 materials for, in foreign trade, admitted

appropriation for cooperation with States

free of duty; regulations.......

88

for fire protection...

961 Consular Assistants,

agreement for maintenance of system

appropriation for salaries.,.

345, 1035

if State law exists...

961 Consular Clerks (see Consular Assistants).

amount limited to expenditures by

Consular Inspectors,

State....

961 appropriation for salaries..

345, 1035

appropriations for survey, acquirement,

for expenses..

345, 1035

etc., of lands at headwaters of 'havi-

Consular Officers,

gable streams

961 appropriation for instruction and transit

to expire June 30, 1915...

961

pay..

338, 1029

National Forest Reservation Commission

for transportation to and from posts.. 340, 1030

created; powers, etc..

962

for paying heirs of, dying abroad.... 341, 1031

recommendation by, of lands to be pur-

chased .....

962

for bringing home from abroad, remains

of......

341, 1031

BCEHE5

liv

INDEX .

Consular Officers-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for transporta-

tion ....

774, 811, 814, 1324

jurisdiction of United States courts exclusive of State, in suits against.... 1161

Consular Reports, Daily,

edition increased ; former provisions re-

pealed ....

821

Consular Service (see also Diplomatic and

Consular Service),

appropriation for Director of the ....... 484, 1186 Consulates,

appropriation for repairs to premises.... 342, 1032

for clerk hire at.

346, 1035

for purchase of land, Amoy.

347

deficiency appropriation for clerks at..

1324

for contingent expenses...

1324

purchase of buildings, etc., for, authorized . 917

Consuls,

appropriation for salaries....

345, 1035

Consuls, Foreign, power of district court and commissioners

to enforce orders, etc. , of....... 1163 Consuls-General,

appropriation for salaries....

345, 1035

Contagious Diseases, aliens afflicted with, excluded admission... 263

Contagious Diseases, D. C., appropriation for preventing spread of... 402, 993

Containers,

duty on, metal, lacquered , etc ..

32

paper...

32

Containers of American Manufacture,

on free list, returned from abroad ..

72

Contempt of Court,

power of United States courts to punish... 1163 Contentnia Creek, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 641, 938 Contested Election Cases, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for compiling,

etc

805

Contiguous Countries, discriminating duty on importations

through....

87

exceptions under treaties or acts of Con-

gress..

87

retail trade ..

87

Contingent Expenses,
appropriation for Army.. for Indian service .

243, 1037 272, 1061

for foreign missions. for consulates. for District of Columbia.
for Department of Agriculture.. for Senate .

340, 1030 347, 1036
380, 972 436, 1261 472, 1174

for House of Representatives .

478, 1180

for Library of Congress.

481, 1183

for Executive Office.. for Department of State .

482, 1185 485, 1187

for Treasury Department...

492, 1194

for Auditor for Post Office Depart-

ment ....

494, 1196

for War Department ..

504, 1206

for Navy Department.

510, 1213

for Interior Department...

516, 1218

for Civil Service Commission..

516, 1218

for Post Office Department..

522, 1223

for Department ofJustice .

523, 1225

for Department of Commerce and

Labor....

528, 1232

for Navy .....

607.1267

for Independent Treasury. ...... 713, 1390

for land offices...

739, 1414

of Treasury Department to be under con-

trol of officials designated by the

Secretary .

776

Contingent Fund, House of Representatives, Page.

vouchers approved by Committee on

Accounts, conclusive on all officers,

etc.

1318

Contract Labor, Alien,

appropriation for expenses preventing im-

migration of....

764, 1442

Contract-Labor Laws,

jurisdiction of district courts under........ 1093 Contract Laborers, Alien,
admission excluded ; contract defined .... 264

exceptions, skilled laborers, if similar

class not obtainable .

264

professions, ministers, etc ..

264

domestic and personal servants ..

264

Contract Surgeons, Army,

appropriation for...

249, 1042

for mileage.....

250, 1043

Contracts,

written, for temporary leases, etc., in river

and harbor work not required ....

676

Contracts, Interstate Commerce,

filed by carriers with Commission, to be preserved as public records .
Contracts, Naval, partial payments allowed on work done; limit..
insurance to be provided for in.................................. Contracts with Indians,

555
1267 1267

action of Congress required for approval of, relating to tribal money or property .
Contributions to Elections for Representatives,
provisions for giving publicity to.. Controller Railway and Navigation Company,
may bridge Bering River, Alaska...

808 822 1360

may extend railway in Controller Bay, etc.
granted right of way over tide and shore lands....
regulations, etc .. Convict Labor,

1360
1360 1361

importation ofmanufactures of, prohibited . 87 Convicts, D. C.,

appropriation for support of, out of the Dis-

trict....

405, 996

deficiency appropriation for support of...... 223, 788,811, 814

Convicts, United States Courts,

release on parole of; conditions .

819

Conway, S. C.,

bridge authorized across Waccamaw River

at..

179

time extended for bridging Waccamaw

River at..

906

Cook County, Ill.,

bridge_authorized across Little Calumet

River in.......

178

Cook, Joel, late a Representative in Congress, deficiency appropriation for widow of.... 1317

Cookeville, Tenn., appropriation for public building.. acquiring site and erecting public building at, authorized...
terms of court at; rooms required...... Cooks' Knives,

1369
688 1125

duty on.

27

Coon Creek Rapids, Minn.,

dam authorized across Mississippi River

at.

893

Cooper Creek, N. J., appropriation for improvement of.. ... 636, 936

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673 Coos Bay, Oreg.,

appropriation forseagoing hydraulic dredge 663

for improvement of harbor....

663

forimprovement of harbor entrance, etc. 950

preliminary examination of, and entrance,

to be made..

674

INDEX .

lv

Coos Bay, Customs District; Oregon, territory established ...
portof entry, Coos Bay..

Page. | Coral,

Page.

579 duty on cut but not set..

68

579 on free list, uncut, and unmanufactured .. 75

ports of delivery, Ellensburg, Port Orford, and Gardiner.
officers, and residence.. Coos River, Oreg.,
appropriation for improvement of..... Coosa River, Ga. and Ala.,
appropriation forimprovement of, between Rome and Lock No. 4..

Cordage,

579 duty on, hemp ...

-49

579

istle, Tampico fiber, etc..

49

Cordele, Ga.,

663 appropriation for public building ....... 1369

limit of cost increased, public building... 677

Cordials,

644 duty on..

40

2 8988882R  833 5 83 ~ AA BAAAAANA~~~~ PENES . I

for lock and dam at Mayos Bar....... 644, 939 Cords,

for Dam No. 4...

.... 644, 939 duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

for Dam No. 5 ....

... 644, 939

hair..

60

for improvement of, in Alabama.

942

cotton, flax, etc.....

50

completion and use of dam at Lock No. 4,

flax, hemp, or ramie.

49

authorized; conditions..

939

silk..

contract with Ragland Water Power

woolen .....

54

Company; terms and conditions... 939 Cords and Tassels,

payment for power, etc.....

940 duty on, silk...

60

Copal,

woolen....

54

on free list, gum, crude....

72 Corduroys,

Copper,

duty on, cotton, etc.

47

duty on, bottoms .

30 Core Creek, N. C., .

braziers ....

30 preliminary examination of, to be made... 674

´manufactures of, not specially provided

Core Sound, N. C.,

for...

33 preliminary examination of channel to

pipes..... rods...

30

Newport River from, to be made... 674

30 Coriander Seed,

rolled plates..

30 on free list...

79

sheathing.. sheets.
sulphate of... yellow metal..
on free list, black or coarse.. cement.
clippings from new.... coins...

30 Cork,

30 duty on, artificial ...

66

12

carpets....

49

30

cut in squares, etc..

66

74

manufactured corks..

66

74

manufactures not specially provided for. 66

74

substitutes...

66

74 on free list, bark, unmanufactured .....

75

composition metal of, etc., not specially

wood, unmanufactured ......

75

provided for.....

75 Corms,

medals received as prizes, etc.

77 duty on, flower or foliage..

37

old .

74 Corn,

ore........

.74 duty on..

35

regulus of..

74

broom..

35

subacetate of.......

80

meal....

35

unmanufactured, plates, bars, etc., not

Corn Salad Seed,

specially provided for..

74 duty on..

37

Copper River, Alaska, bridgeauthorized across belowthe Katsina.
Copper River and Northwestern Railway Com-

Cornelius, E. L., 263 deficiency appropriation for extra services.
Cornell, Charles H.,

127 :

pany,

may bridge Copper River below the Kat-

sina.

263

time extended to dam Niobrara River, on

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation,

Nebr...

920

Copperas, duty on..
Copra, duty on, prepared... on free list, not shredded , etc....

for right of way, etc................

921

13 Cornucopia, Wis.,

preliminary examination to be made of

38

harbor..

955

77 Coronado National Forest, Ariz.,

Copying Books, Paper, duty on letter...
Copying Paper, duty on.
Copying Pencil Leads, duty on.
Copyright Laws,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

62 Coroner's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries..

377,969

61

for expenses ...

381, 974

inquests restricted .

974

70 deficiency appropriation for deputy...

782

for expenses...

783, 1296

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

Corporation Counsel's Office, D. C.,

sive of State, in cases under..... 1161 appropriation for salaries..

376,969

Copyright Office, Library of Congress,

Corporation Surety Bonds,

appropriation for register, assistant, clerks,

authority of Secretary of the Treasury asto

etc..

.._480, 1183

acceptance of..

241

for publication of Catalogue of Title En-

tries...

769, 1447

deficiency-appropriation for register....

129

Coquill Glasses,

duty on...

20

Corporation Tax, Internal Revenue,

appropriation for expenses ofcollecting. 494, 1197

for classifying, etc. , returns of corpora-

tions...

494, 1197

restriction on inspection of returns. 494, 1197

Coquille River, Oreg. appropriation for improvement of..

deficiency, appropriation for expenses of

663

collecting.

120, 780, 1291

lvi

INDEX .

Corporation Tax, Internal Revenue- Contd . Page.

deficiency appropriation for expenses or

collecting, etc.; reappropriation ..... 1291

special excise, levied on net income of

joint stock, and insurance com-

panies....

112

foreign companies....

112

exceptions; labor organizations...

113

fraternal beneficial societies, etc..

113

religious, charitable, and educational

organizations....

113

ascertainment of net income.

113

deductions...

113

computation of tax......

114

reports of company officials; contents.

114

transmittal to Commissioner of Internal

Revenue...

115

further returns if necessary.

115

examinations by agents..

115

assessment to be made..

116

penalty for false returns, etc ..

116

notification to companies..

116

time of payment....

116

penalty for arrears..

116

custody of assessment returns.

116

inspection, etc..

116

divulging information forbidden.

116

punishment for.....

116

penalty for failure to make returns.

117

making false returns....

117

punishment for officers making false re-

turns, etc....

117

application of general internal-revenue

laws.....

117

courts to compel attendance, etc..

117

Corporations,

liabilities of officers, etc. , not released by

bankruptcy of...

839

Corporations Bureau, Department of Com-

merce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

etc.

525, 1226

for special attorneys, etc., expenses.. 525, 1227

deficiency appropriation for special agents,

etc...

224

Corporations, D. C.,

Firemen's Insurance Company may accept

risks out of District..

920

Masonic Temple Association, rights of

stockholders to vote, amended ..

239

National McKinley Birthplace Memorial

Association chartered..

1361

Washington Sanitary Housing Company,

rate of dividend.

887

Corporations, Railroad,

commission to investigate issue of stocks

and bonds by....

586

Corpus Christi, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of channel

from Aransas Pass to.....

650

for public building......

1369

Correction of Military Records,

private laws for, not to preclude granting of

pensions subsequent to their enact-

ment....

-1458

Corregidor Island, P. I.,

appropriation for electric power plant ..... 1398

Corrosive Sublimate,

duty on..

16

Corry, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

Corset Clasps,

duty on.

24

Corset Covers,

duty on, cotton, etc.

48

Corset Lacings,
duty on, cotton, etc. Corset Steels,

Page. 48

duty on...

24

Corticene,

duty on, floor coverings...

49

mats..

49

Cortland, N. Y., appropriation for public building......

1369

construction of public building authorized

at.

682

Corundum,

duty on manufactures of..

66

on free list....

75

Cost ofFood Supplies,

investigation continued of, at farm and to

consumer..

440, 1264

Cost ofProduction,

appropriation for securing information of,

as affecting tariff, etc ..

703, 1363

Cost ofProduction ofImported Merchandise,

to be ascertained by appraiser if unable to

procure market value at place of

manufacture...

97

Cost of Work, Navy,

direct and indirect charges to be included

in computing....

1267

Cost of Work Offices, Accounting and,

appropriation for establishing, at navy-

yards and stations......

607

Costa Rica,

appropriation for minister to.....

337, 1027

for secretary of legation.....

337, 1028

distribution of tents to sufferers of earth-

quake in...

367

Costs, United States Courts,

prepayment by poor persons not required,

on affidavit of poverty...

866

Collon,

appropriation for investigating handling,

etc., of; establishing standards... 422, 1242

duty on, articles, embroidered, etc ...

50

bagging ofjute, etc..
bandings... bands...

belting for machinery.. belts and beltings..

bindings... bone casings. braces..
braids.

cable-laid yarns or threads.

mercerized, etc.....

42

card laps.......

42

carpetsand carpeting of wool, etc., and ..

chenille articles .

cloth...

42

determination of..

46

filled or coated ...

46

figured, etc.

47

mercerized, etc..

47

not specially provided for..

48

silk and...

46

waterproof...

50

clothing, ready made..

47

cords..

50

crochet..

42

curtains, chenille.

47

darning...

42

edgings..

50

embroideries..

50

embroidery.

42

fabrics, embroidered , etc ..

50

featherstitch braids ..

50

flocks, manufactured ..

42

flouncings...

50

 

INDEX .

lvii

22 888888 8 8 *** *** 888 8809 88OTTOBOOT

Cotton-Continued. duty on, flouncings, hemstitched or tucked.
flutings...
galloons... garters... gloves, men's and boys' .
gorings.... handkerchiefs ..
embroidered......
lace ..... hose and half-hose.......
not specially provided for.. hose, hydraulic or flume.... insertings.... Jacquard figured goods... labels for garments, etc: lace articles........ lace window curtains, made on Notting-
ham lace or warp machines.. laces, etc., made on Lever or Gothrough
machine .
lacings, boot, shoe, and corset.. loom harness, etc... manufactured yarns, etc.... manufactures of, not specially provided
for..... mats and mattings.. mufflers... napkins, lace................................... neck rufflings. nets.....
nets or netting, made on Nottingham lace or warp machines..
nettings... ornaments. oilcloth... .....
pile fabrics...
pillow shams made on Nottingham lace or warp machines.....
quillings.. ribbons..
roping.. roving.. ruchings..
rugs.. shirt collars and cuffs..
skirtings, hemstitched or tucked .. aliver...
spindle banding.. spool thread.. stockings..
not specially provided for.. suspenders..... table covers, chenille. table damask.
tapes... tapestries.. tire fabrics..
tracing cloth. trimmings.. tubing... tuckings.. thread and yarn..
mercerized, etc..... underwear.. veils or veilings.. waste, manufactured.
wearing apparel... embroidered .. lace...
webs and webbings..
wicking... window Hollands.. on free list. flocks.... waste....

Page. Cotton Boll Weevil,

Page.

50 appropriation for meeting ravages of... 422, 1243

50

for investigations of........

433, 1257

50 deficiency appropriation for investigation

48

of...

1324

48 Cotton Gins,

50 duty on; admitted free from country not

46

imposing duty.....

71

50 Cotton Manufactures,

50 Schedule I, Tariff of 1909 ....

41

47 Collon Seed,

47 on free list..

79

49 Cotton-Seed Oil,

50 on free list.....

77

47 Cotton Ties,

48 duty on iron or steel.....

22

50 Council Bluffs, Iowa,

appropriation for public building..... 704, 1369

50

for rent..

1369

terms of court at.

1111

50 time extended for bridging Missouri River

48

at..

.853

48 Counselorfor the Department ofState, 42 appropriation for....

484, 1186

Counterfeiting, etc.,

48 appropriation for expenses, suppressing,

55

etc ..

715, 1392

46

restriction on employees....

715

50

payment for details from Secret Serv-

50

ice Division, forbidden .................... 715, 1392

50 details from expenses of preventing, to en-

force laws relating to Treasury De-

50

partment..

713, 1390

50 Countervailing Duties,

50 on binding twine from country levying

46

duty on; from United States...

73

47 on imports from countries paying export

bounty on the same...

85

50 on printing paper from country imposing

50

export duty, etc., on paper, wood

50

pulp, etc....

61

42 on sulphuric acid from countries imposing

42

duty on imports of, from United

50

States...

80

55 on wood pulp from country imposing ex-

50

port duty, etc., on printing paper,

50

wood pulp, etc.....

61

42 Country of Origin,

48 to be marked on imported clock, etc.,

movements .....

31

47 to be plainly marked on articles imported,

47

and packages..

85

48

required before delivery..

85

47

punishment for false labels, etc ..

86

48 to be sunk in blades of knives, etc., of im-

50

ported articles .

27

47 Court-House, D. C.,

48 appropriation for employees...

405, 996

46

for repairs....

747, 1423

50 deficiency appropriation for repairs...

798

48

for special repairs.

798

50

for completing addition for court of ap-

41

peals; furnishings ..

798

42 Court ofAppeals, D. C.,
48 appropriation for reports of decisions.... 403, 994 50 for c 42 caurse, etc., of building; clerk to be todian....... 405,996

47

for salaries..

529, 1233

50

for reports of decisions...

529, 1233

50 deficiency appropriation for completing

50

building for...

798

48

for furnishings..

798

46

for construction; extending Interior De-

75

partment heating system.......

1310

75 bond not required of United States or Dis-

75

trict on appeals, etc., in.

464

lviii

INDEX .

Court of Appeals, D. C.- Continued.

Page.

cases in which writs of error or appeals are allowed to Supreme Court from.... 1159

Court of Arbitration, International Bureau of Permanent,

appropriation for annual contribution.. 342, 1032

for expenses of North Atlantic fisheries

arbitration before ......

765

Court ofClaims,

appropriation for judges, clerks, etc ... 530, 1234

for auditors, etc......

530, 1234

for contingent expenses . for reporting decisions. for pay of custodian.. for reconstructing elevator...
for printing and binding for .

530, 1235 530, 1235 530, 1235
747 769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ments of....

129, 218, 807, 891, 1319

for paying judgments, in Indian depre-

dation claims..

218,808, 1320

forpayingjudgment in cases of Choctaws,

Chickasaws, and Chickasaw freed-

men......

807

no contracts affecting Indian funds to

be made without approval of Con-

gress .

808

constitution of; salaries of judges, etc.. 1135

sessions; quorum; officers...

1136

clerk, bond ; to transmit statement of deci-

sions and judgments.....

1136

Senators, Members, and Delegates can not

practice in...

1136

punishment for..

1136

jurisdiction, of claims, except pensions,

against United States upon con-

tracts...

1136

for damages, not sounding in torts.

1136

war claims, etc., excepted ...

1137

set-offs, counterclaims, etc...

1137

limitations on suits for official services. 1137

losses by officers in line of duty..

1137

judgments on set-offs, etc.; enforcement. 1137

allowance of accounts of disbursing offi-

cers ....

1137

claims referred by executive depart-

ment; procedure; decrees....

1137

report of findings....

1137

judgment if transmitted with consent

of claimant, etc ..

1137

matters transmitted on certificate of

Auditor or Comptroller for trial, etc. 1138

proceedings as in other claims..

1138

determination of facts in matters submit-

ted by Congress .....

1138

report of facts, laches, conclusions, etc.. 1138

judgment if in jurisdiction of court..... 1138

further hearings...

1138

report to Congress...

1138

allowance of costs if Government put in

issue right to recover...

1138

treaty claims not in jurisdiction..........

1138

claims pending in other courts excluded .. 1138

aliens accorded reciprocally rights to pros-

ecute claims in...

1139

claims to be brought in six years..

1139

rights of married women, minors, etc ... 1139

rules and practice; punishment for con-

tempt .

1139

petitions, statements required in; verifica-

tion....

1139

dismissal if claimant aided, etc., rebel-

lion .

1139

proof of loyalty required ..

1139

jurisdiction to determine claims for pro-

ceeds of property taken after June 1,

1865, etc....

1139

Court of Claims-Continued.

Page

captured, etc., property; return of pro-

ceeds to owner..

1140

statutes of limitation removed .

1140

commissioners authorized to take testi-
mony.... to call on departments or Congressional
committees for information, etc .. discretion of department....

1140
1140 1140

no testimony to be taken if petition shows

no ground for relief...

1140

examination of claimant..

1140

use as evidence; discretionary.. action on failure to appear..
testimony to be taken in county ofwitness. issue of subpoenas; effect . cross-examinations.. examinations under oath .. commissioners ' fees...

1140 1140 1140 1140 1140 1140 1141

claims forfeited forfraud..

1141

Fourth of July claims rejected if excessive amounts claimed, etc..
new trials permitted... taxing costs of printing... interest restricted to express contracts..
payment of judgment a full discharge... bar to further claim ..

1141
1141. 1141 1141 1141 1141

petitions for release from official bond, etc. 1141

judgment conclusive ; limitation of right

to recover under..

1142

appeals; procedure...

1142

appeals allowed to Supreme Court in cer-

tain Indian cases...

1142

all suits on bonds, etc., to be reported to

Congress at each session....

1142

loyalty a jurisdictional fact in claims for

supplies, etc., taken during civil

war .

1142

dismissal if not proven.......

1142

Attorney-General or assistants to appear for defense...
witnesses not excluded on account of interest, etc..
Congressional cases continued until acted upon....
appeals allowed to Supreme Court from.. time limit, etc...
claim of Yankton Sioux Indians to lands in Minnesota referred to..

1142
1143
1143 1157 1157
284

claims of bands of Chippewa Indians in

Michigan referred to.....

829

proceedings in, under Tucker Act.

837

conclusions of court, etc. , as to character

of demand and amount due to be re-

ported ....

838

suits for compensation for unlicensed use of

patented articles by United States to

be brought in...

851

claims barred, etc.

851

to determine balances due from Menomi

nee Indians under logging contracts. 287

claims of Omaha Indians ..

580

to take testimony, etc., in claims against

Menominee Indians...

287

Otoe and Missouria Indians.

580

Court ofCustoms Appeals,

appropriation for judges..

530, 1234

for marshal, clerks, etc... for miscellaneous expenses..

530, 1234 530, 1234

for Assistant Attorney-General, Deputy,

attorneys, etc. , for conduct of cases

in ..

747

for printing and binding for..... 769, 1447 for expenses, conduct of customs cases.. 1424

deficiency appropriation for salaries and

expenses....

214

INDEX.

lix

Court of Customs Appeals Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriations for contingent

expenses .

214

for printing and binding...

807

created; composition; salaries ...

105,1143

to be a court of record; jurisdiction .... 105, 1145

general powers...

105, 1145

services of marshals.

105, 1144

in Washington D. C....

105, 1144

outside the District of Columbia............ 105, 1144

clerk with office in Washington, D. C.. 105, 1144

duties and powers; salary..

105, 1144

to turn costsandfeesintotheTreasury. 105, 1144

not eligible as commissioner, etc .... 105, 1144

costs and fees to be established...

105, 1144

limit; accounting...
rules of procedure to be adopted . to be always open for business. sessions in the circuits....

105, 1144 105,1145
105, 1143 105, 1143

presiding judge; quorum...

105, 1143

organization in 90 days after qualifica-

tion

105, 1143

appeals from decisions of general ap-

praisers to other courts to cease

after......

106, 1145

appeals allowed from general appraisers to

be reviewed only by .

106, 1145

action on pending cases, etc..

106, 1145

exclusive jurisdiction to review final de-

cisions, etc., of board of general ap-

praisers....

106, 1145

judgments and decrees final.

106, 1145

expenses ofjudges attending sessions other

than in Washington...

106, 1143

rooms to be provided in public build-

ings....

.106, 1144

leases authorized when necessary.... 106, 1145

pay of bailiffs and messengers.. restriction on outside rooms..

106, 1145 106, 1145

limit of time for bringing appeals from de-

cisions of general appraisers..... 107, 1146

extended for Älaska and insular posses-

sions....

107, 1146

statement, etc., to be filed with clerk... 107, 1146

record, etc., to be transmitted from general

appraisers to..

107, 1146

evidence admitted ..

107, 1146

finality of decision of..

107, 1146

transfer of all pending cases, records, and

samples to... completion of testimony.

107, 1145 107, 1146

temporary service of other judges in... 107, 1143

extent of power to review..

107, 1145

calendar; hearings........ additional clerks, etc...

.... 107,1146 107, 1144

reporter to transmit copies of decisions to

Secretary of the Treasury.

107, 1144

publication and distribution of reports. 107, 1144

contingent expenses allowed.

108, 1144

Assistant Attorney-General, Deputy, and

attorneys for customs cases to be

appointed....

108

salaries and duties..

108

salary of Assistant Attorney-General estab-

lished..

214

Court Officials,

relationship to judge disqualifying persons

as.

1105

Court-Plaster,

duty on.

16

Courts andPrisons, D. C.,

appropriation for support of convicts out

of the District...

405, 996

for courthouse employees....

405, 996

for court of appeals building, care etc. 405, 996

for jail expenses

405

Courts and Prisons, D. C.- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for expenses ofjail prisoners.. 996

for court expenses.......

405, 996

Courts, J. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services, sec-

retary to House Office Building

Commission....

1307

Courts- Martial, etc. , Army,

appropriation for expenses..

249,1043

Courts, United States (see United States

Courts).

Cove Harbor, Conn., preliminary examination of, to be made... 669

Coverings ofAmerican Manufacture,

on free list, returned from abroad.....

72

Covers,

duty on wool..

55

Covington, Ky.,

terms of court at.

1112

Covington, Tenn.,

appropriation for public building..

1369

acquiring site and crecting public building

at, authorized...

688

Covington, Va.,

construction of public building authorized

at.

683

Cow Head River, Ga.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Cowlitz River, Wash.,

appropriation forimprovement of........ 665, 951

Cox, C. ^M.,

payment for services..

230

acts as commissioner Florida northern

judicial district, legalized.............

230

Craig County, Okla.,

federal jail at Vínita transferred to; con-

ditions....

702

Cranberries,

duty.on.

37.

Crane and Company,

deficiency appropriation for.....

777

Cranston's Hotel, West Point, N. Y,

purchase authorized of, Ladycliffe Acad-

emy, formerly, to add to Military

Academy grounds.....

323

Crater Lake National Park, Oreg.,

appropriation for surveying, etc. , roads and

trails...

725

for protection, etc....

745, 1421

Crater National Forest, Oreg. and Cal.,

appropriationfor maintenance, etc., of.. 426, 1248

Crayons, duty on, not specially provided for........ 15

Cream,

duty on..

36

Cream Nuts,

on free list..

77

Cream ofTartar and Patent Tartar,

duty on.

12

CreekIndians (see also Five Civilized Tribes),

appropriation for expenses, etc., leasing

lands of.....

281

for tribal schools.

282

funds arising from sales of lands, etc., of,

may be deposited in banks....

1070

approval of Secretary of Interior; use of

interest..

1070

paymentfromfundsof,toArthurP.Murphy. 282

for paving, Okmulgee, Okla..

282

M. L. Mott for servicesasattorney..

282

Crematory, D. C., Public,

appropriation for maintenance.......... 403, 994

Creosote Oil,

on free list..

74

Crepe Paper,

duty on..

62

lx

INDEX .

Crescent City, Cal.,

Page.

preliminary examination, to be made of

harbor...

955

Crescent Lake, Fla.,

post lantern lights authorized in .................

534

Cresol,

on free list......

74

Creston, Iowa,

terms of court at.

1111

Criers, etc., United States Courts,

appropriation for pay.

750, 1427

appointment authorized for district courts. 1088

Crimes, appropriation for punishing violations of

internal-revenue laws....

713, 1390

details from, for enforcing laws relating

to Treasury Department.

713, 1390

for expenses, suppressing counterfeiting,

etc ...

715, 1392

for detection and prosecution of.

748, 1424

protection of the President...

748 1424

deficiency appropriation for prosecution

of

213, 1311

consent of Congress to agreement of States

determining jurisdiction of, com-

mitted on Lake Michigan....

882

Crimes and Misdemeanors,



penalty for neglect of duty, etc. , by census

official ....

8

refusing, etc., to answer census inquiries. 8

hotel, etc., proprietors refusing to assist

census official in collecting statis-

tics ...

9

unauthorized use of census frank for mail

matter.....

10

importing goods, etc., in foreign ships;

exceptions ..

87

refusing to answer, etc. , in customs cases. 100

false declarations of domestic exports... 102

corporations failing to make income

returns ...

117

corporations making false, etc. , income

returns .

117

violating requirements of railroad safety

appliances law

299

hauling defective cars, except for repairs. 299

common carriers failing to make monthly

reports ofrailway accidents....

351

violating regulations for height, etc., of

buildings, D. C ...

454

violating motor-boat regulations..

463

giving or receiving interstate passes,

franks, etc..

547

noncompliance with regulations for inter-

state commerce schedules, etc ..

548

failing to give, or misstating, rates for

shipments, by carriers...

548

violating interstate - commerce regula-

tions ..

549

carriers, etc., disclosing information of

shipments....

553

common carriers failing to comply with

rates, etc., ordered by Interstate

Commerce Commission .

554

dumping refuse in Lake Michigan, near

Chicago ..

593

violating regulations for constructing,

etc., darris..

595

ocean vessels leaving port without wire-

less telegraph equipment..

630

violations of safe locomotive engine

boilers act

916

discriminating by theaters, etc., against

wearers of United States uniforms... 964

lighting companies, D. C. , refusing to

maintain lamps, etc..........

1011

Crimes and Misdemeanors- Continued.
punishment for receiving fee for securing census appointment, etc...
census official giving unauthorized informationfrom returns..
swearing falsely, making false certificates, etc..
enumerator making false statement as to
inquiries.... officers, etc., of factories, mines, quar-
ries, etc., refusing, or giving false, information to census inquiries ..... false labels., etc., on imported articles.. false declarations accompanying invoices entering imports with false invoices, etc. false statements, etc., in customs cases.. bribery of customs officials, etc ... accepting bribes, etc., by customs officials....
illegally packing, etc. , cigars...
attaching lottery tickets, indecent pictures, etc., to packages of tobacco...
divulging information obtained in assessing corporation tax..
officials of corporations making false, etc., income returns..
importing aliens for prostitution or immoral purposes....
keeping, etc., aliens for prostitution, etc. deported alien attempting to return...
issuing warehouse receipts, D. C., for goods not received ..
issuing warehouse receipts, D. C. , containing false statements..
issuing duplicate warehouse receipts. D. C., not so marked...
issuing warehouse receipts, D. C., of warehouseman's goods not stating that fact...
delivering goods without obtaining negotiable warehouse receipt, D. C.
negotiating warehouse receipts, D. C., for mortgaged goods....
unauthorized killing of fur-bearing animals, Alaska..
unlawful landing, etc., on Pribilof Islands, Alaska...
unauthorized killing of fur seals on Pribilof Islands or adjacent waters...
killing female or young seals, Alaska.. any seal in waters adjacent to Pribilof slands, or on beaches, etc...
manufacture of adulterated or misbranded insecticides, etc......
introducing, shipping, or delivering adulterated or misbranded insecticides, etc....
violating injunctions under regulations for height, etc., of buildings, D. C ..
unlawful discriminations in rates, etc.,
by carriers......
giving lower rates by carrier, for transportation by false billing, classification, etc..
shipper attempting to obtain less than regular rates by false billing, etc....
by false claims for allowances; damages .
by bribery. unauthorized use of " Red Cross " or
" Geneva Cross, " etc..
violating requirements for publicity of contributions to elections of Representatives.......
furnishing transportation, tickets, etc., to females for immoral purposes.....

Page. 8 8 8 8
86 95 97 101 103 103 109 110 116 117 264 264 265 309 309 309
310 310 310 327 327 327 328 328 331
331 455 549
549 549 550 550 604
824 $25

INDEX.

Ixi

Crimes and Misdemeanors-Continued.

Page.

punishment for inducing, etc., transporta- tion of women for immoral purposes 825

females under eighteen.....

826

failing to file statements of alien women

in houses of prostitution......

827

taking property attached by miner's

labor lien, Alaska.....

851

violating provisions of letter carrier over-

time claims payments......

866

failing to testify in investigation of Interior Department and Forest Service. 872

inducing Indians to convey trust allot-

ments....

857

timber depredations on Indian trust al-

lotments, etc...

857

not extinguishing fires on public lands,

Indian trust allotments, etc..

857

excessive charges by agents'in claim of

Julian G. Baker, deceased ..

918

disclosing national defense secrets.

1084

to foreign governments..

1085

clerk ofState court failing tofurnish copy

of record in cases removed to district

courts .

1099

violating duties, etc., by receivers,

United States courts...

1104

Senators, Members, etc., practicing in

Court of Claims...

1136

' sending in mails matter inciting arson,

murder, or assassination.....

1339

making false records, accounts, etc., by

Government employees......

1355

making false reports of public moneys or

securities by officer, etc., in charge.. 1356

Crimes under Federal Laws,

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

sive of State, in...........

1161

Criminal Cases,

monthly adjournment of regular terms of

district courts, for trial of ....

1088

precedence in Supreme Court in writs of

error from State courts in....

1160

Criminal Code Amendment,

punishment for sending in mails, words in-

citing arson, murder, or assassination 1339

Criminal Identification, National Bureau of,

appropriation for aid to......

399,990

Criminal Identification Records,

appropriation for collection, etc. , of.... 748, 1424 Criminals,

appropriation for bringing home, from

abroad...

340, 1031

Criminals, Alien,

excluded admission if convicted of offense

involving moral turpitude.......

264

Crinoline Cloth,

duty on..

67

Crisfield, Md., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 639
Crochet Cotton,

duty on....

42

Crochet Needles,

duty on...

28

Crockery,

duty on, common, not decorated

18

common, painted, etc.....

18

Crook National Forest, Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Crops,

. census inquiries as to value, acreage, etc.,

of farm .

4,227

Crops, Southern Field,

appropriation for investigations of insects

affecting....

433

Crosby Transportation Company,

Page.

may change name of steamer "Naomi " to

"E. G. Crosby".

326

Cross Ledge Light Station, N. J.,

discontinued.

535

Croton Oil,

on free list..

77

Crow Indians, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...

277

for fulfilling treaty with

277,1066

Crowbars,

duty on iron or steel.....

25

Crowley, La.,

appropriation for public building..

1370

Crown Point Lighthouse Reservation, N. Y.,

memorial structure allowed on.

924

acceptance authorized; maintenance... 924

Croxton, F. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 803 Crucibles,

duty on common, not decorated ..

18

on free list, common blue clay for....... " 74

Cryolite,

on free list..

75

Crystal River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of.......... 645

Cuba,

appropriation for minister to......... 337, 1027

forsecretary of legation.....

337, 1028

for second secretary..

338, 1028

admission to Military Academy of Melchor

Batista of...

1458

consent for raising wreck of "Maine " from Habana Harbor to be obtained from. 353

details of Army officers under, permitted;

limit, etc...

324

reciprocity treaty with, not affected by

Tariff Act

83

FIF

sales, of Army magazine rifles, ordnance equipment, etc., to, authorized .... 261

Cuba Bark,

duty on, braids, laces, etc.

64

hats, bonnets, and hoods..

65

Cubic Nitrate,

on free list.

79

Cudbear,

on free list...

75

Cuero, Tex.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized ...

683

Cullman, Ala.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized

680

Cullom, Honorable Shelby M.,

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission...

898

Culm,

duty on...

65

Cultivators,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty....................

71

Cumberland, Md.,

terms of court at .

1114

Cumberland River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Nashville, Tenn.; maintenance..... 651

Lock and Dam 21 .

651

for improvement of, below Nashville,

Tenn.; maintenance..

651, 1406

for improvement of below . Nashville,

Tenn.; contracts; Locks and Dams

B, C, D, E, and F,..

651

for improvement of, for slack-water navi-

gation between Locks and Dams No.

3 and No. 7....

945

lxii

INDEX .

Cumberland River-Continued.

Page.

bridge_authorized across, at Gainesboro,

Tenn ..

185

Cumberland Sound, Ga. and Fla., preliminary examination to be made of

channel between Saint Johns River ,

and ...

954

Cumidin,

on free list:

74

Cummin Seed,

on free list..

79

Cummings Point, Fla.,

bridge authorized across Perdido Bay,

Lillian, Ala., to.....

415

Cups,

duty on, china, etc. , decorated, etc ....

18

china, etc., not decorated ...

18

Curling Stones,

on free list.

75

handles for..

75

Currants,

duty on Zante, or other.............

38

Currency Act,

issue of gold certificates for coin, bullion,

and foreign coin...

965

Currency, Emergency National,

deficiency appropriation for storing notes

for....

119

Current River, Ark. and Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 651, 945 bridgeauthorized across, Clay County, Ark. 195

Curriers' Knives,

duty on.

27

Curry, and Curry Powder,

on free list.

75.

Curtains,

d· uty on, bead or spangle.

64

cotton chenille ....

47

lace window.

50

wood, etc.

34

Cushman, Francis W., late a Representative, deficiencyappropriation for paytowidowof. 128

Cushman Indian School, Tacoma, Wash.,

appropriation for brick pavement, etc., in

front of, from tribal fund..

1075

Custer County, Mont., appropriation for surveying public landsin. 741

Custer National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Custodians, Public Buildings, Assistant,

appropriation for...

714, 1391

Custom-House, New York City,

franchise accepted, pneumatic-tube service to appraisers' stores from...... 120
Custom-House Brokers,

licenses to be issued by collectors of cus-

toms .

464

required for transacting business; ex-

ceptions....

464

revocation; hearings, etc.

464

appeal to circuit court; decision final.. 465

Customs (see also Immediate Transportation of Dutiable Goods),
appropriation for securing information to

assist in administering laws relating

to...

703, 1363

for collecting revenues from, addi-

tional ...

716, 1393

detection offrauds upon, increased . 716, 1393

number and pay of special agents es-

tablished ..

1393

for automatic recording scales, etc ... 716, 1393

for compensation in lieu of moieties. 716, 1393

deficiency appropriation for securing in-

formation to assist in administering

laws relating to...........

119

Customs- Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for expenses, liti-

gation of cases relating to..

125

for collecting revenue from .

219,

781, 809, 1294, 1320

for automatic, etc. , scales for..

781

for motor boats, etc., for boarding vessels 781

for refund of duty to Samuel L. Barnhart....
for compensation in lieu of moieties.. admission in bond, duty free, of articles
for exhibition at Merchants and Manufacturers' Exchange.... payment of duty on withdrawals....

781 889
1357 1358

appraiser at San Francisco, Cal. , salary in-

creased ...

894

certified checks may be received for duties;

conditions ...

965

decisions by Board of General Appraisers as

to duties, etc., reviewed by appeal only in Court of Customs Appeals.. 1145 detail for enforcing laws relating to Treas

ury Department from expenses of

collecting....

713

New Orleans, La., district, Baton Rouge,

La.,made subport of entry.

335

Oregon districts, established..

579

Saint Johns district, Fla., made Jackson-

ville.......

592

special licenses authorized for lading or

unlading vessels at night, etc..

899

preliminary entry to boarding officer;

immediate lading, etc.....

900

bond required; continuing..

900

issue; vessels with goods in transit.

900

extra pay to inspectors, etc., for night

services..

901

payment by master, etc., to collector;

rates .

901

CC7C82C*1C*8C*8C*8.8

boarding officers, etc., may administer oaths...
payment for services at night...... Customs Administration,
appropriation for fees, etc., witnesses before Board of General Appraisers...
consignee deemed owner ofimported goods. holder of indorsed bill of lading considered ..... underwriters recognized as..

901 901
1424 91
91 91

i·nvoices; contents, etc., required .....

91

production to consul before shipment.... 91

indorsements required..

91

if obtained by purchase.

91

if obtained otherwise..

91

statement of currency actually paid.. 92

required before entry for all imports over

$100 .....

92

acceptance of statement in form of..

92

special regulations for periodicals, etc.. 92

bond to produce duly certified , if state-

ment is accepted...

92

declaration to befiled with, by consignee,

etc., when actually purchased... 93

when not purchased ...

93

by owner, when purchased .

94

by manufacturer or owner, when not

purchased.....

95

punishment for false statements in..

95

forfeiture not affected ....

95

corrections allowed in, at time of entry.. 95

appraisal ofactual market value or whole-

sale price, by collector...

96

additional duty if appraised , exceeds

declared value..........

96

additional duty, application and limit.. 96

not to be remitted or refunded ....

96

INDEX .

Ixiii

Customs Administration--Continued.

Page.

invoices; additional duty, not subject to

drawback .....

96

forfeiture, if appraised, 75 per cent in

excess of declared, value..

96

application.....

96

minimum assessment of duty.

96

statement of cost of production by man-

ufacturer, if goods consigned...

96

by consignor, if by person other than

manufacturer...

96

authentication by consular officer... 97

forfeiture of goods fraudulently, etc. , en-

tered ...

97

punishment for false entries, etc..

97

appraisers, etc., to ascertain actual market

value and wholesale prices in coun-

try whence imported..

97

to ascertain cost of production if market

value not obtainable.....

97

actual market value or wholesale price of

goods not sold in open market de-

clared ..

98

general appraisers of merchandise, nine to

be appointed..

98

qualifications; tenure; salary..

98

general powers.........

98

appeals from decisions of collectors to be

referred to...

98

designation of president..

98

division into three boards..........

98

authority of boards.....

99

rules ofprocedure, etc., to be established 99

duties of president..

99

..no member to sit on appeals from his de-

cisions....

99

rehearings authorized.

99

appraisers to revise reports of assistant ap-

praisers.....

99

to report to collector...

99

appraisements at ports where there is no

appraiser.....

99

appeal for reappraisement, by collector... 99

by importer, etc...

99

decision of general appraiser final..

*99

appeals to Board of General Appraisers... 99

authority of board ; hearings..

99

finality of decisions.

100

decisions of collector as to duties, etc. , final 100

appealsallowed to Board of General Ap-

praisers.....

100

determination of board final.

100

appeal to Court of Customs Appeals... 100

general appraisers authorized to admin-

ister oaths....

100

examinations by general appraisers, cus-

toms officers, etc..

100

preservation of testimony..

100

penalty for failure to give information,

etc ...

100

punishment for false swearing, etc......

101.

forfeiture of goods...

101

decisions of general appraisers to be pre-

served, etc..

101

to be reported to Secretary of the Treas-

ury and board at New York; samples 101

publication of abstracts, etc..

101

ad valorem duties assessed on actual mar-

ket value at wholesale price in prin-

cipal markets of country whence

imported .....

101

market value etc., to include coverings,

charges, etc..

101

additional duty on unusual coverings... 101

"value," "actual market value," and

"wholesale price, " construed ...... 101

Customs Administration-Continued.

Pago.

goods withdrawn from warehouse to pay

duty in force at that time.

101

perishable and explosive articles not

affected .

101

in seizure proceedings burden of proof on

claimant ..

101

probable cause to be shown..

102

fees and oaths abolished...

102

except herein provided..

102

exportation entries, declarations..

102

penalties for violations ........ ..

102

allowance in lieu of fees .

102

shortage or nonimportation of fruit, etc.,

from decay.

102

regulations for allowance.

102

" proof, etc., required ....

102

damage allowance forbidden...

102

abandonment permitted ; minimum.

102

goods without market value .....

102

examination of packages...

102

delivery of abandoned goods .

102

condemnation of fruit, etc., by health offi-

cials...

102

examination, etc., by customs officials.. 102

refund of excess of duties, etc...

103

permanent indefinite appropriation for.. 103

correction of clerical errors...

103

annual statement of sums refunded..

103

customs officers not personally liable when appeal might be taken...... 103

punishment for bribery, etc., of customs

officers...

103

evidence offraud, etc., prima facie of un-

lawful intent.

103

burden of proof on accused .

103

punishment for soliciting, etc., unlawful

fees by officials ..

103

evidence of accepting, etc., prima facie

of unlawful intent ..

104

burden of proof on accused .

104

baggage in transit to foreign countries..

104

repeal of sections of Revised Statutes... .104

former laws..

104

not to affect present rights and liabilities. 104

acts of limitation.

104

pending suits.....

104

abandoned property.

105

CourtofCustoms Appeals created; composi-

tion and jurisdiction....

105

solicitor ofcustoms,and assistants,abolished 118

Customs Appeals, Court of (see Court of Customs Appeals).
Customs Cases,

appropriation for salaries and expenses,

conducting..

747, 1424

for fees, etc., of witnesses before Board

of General Appraisers .

1424

Customs Collection Districts,

Apalachicola, Fla., Saint Joseph Bay Har-

bor transferred from Pensacola dis-

· trict to..

897

Mobile, Ala., Birmingham made subport

of entry.

1086

Montana and Idaho, Eastport made subport

of entry.

467

Pearl River, Miss., Scranton, made sub-

port of entry ..

11

established in Oregon, Astoria..

579

Coos Bay

579

Portland

579

Yaquina..

579

officers .

579

Saint Johns, Fla. , name changed to Jack-

Fonville ...

592

Customs Duties (see Tariff of 1909) .

Ixiv

INDEX .

Customs Duties in Philippine Islands,

Page.

provisions for....

130

Customs Entries,

corrections oferrors allowed within oneyear 103

Customs Laws,

appropriation for securing information to

aid in administering.

703, 1363

deficiency appropriation for securing information for administration of maxi-

mum and minimum rates..

119

Customs Laws, Administration of,

employees authorized to secure informa-

tion for...

83

Customs Officers,

extra pay for night work by inspectors, etc. 901

not personally liable for rulings, etc. , when

appeal might be taken..................

103

punishment for bribery of....

103

receiving unlawful fees, gifts, etc ...

103

Customs Regulations,

appeals allowed only to Court of Customs

Appeals from decisions of Board of

General Appraisers as to........

1145

Customs Revenue,

appropriation for collecting .

716, 1393

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

collecting..

219, 781, 809

Customs Service (see Customs Administration).

Customs, Solicitor of, office of, and assistants, abolished ........ 118

Customs Tariffs, Bureaufor Publication of, appropriation for annual contribution .. 341, 1031
Cutlery, imported, to have name of maker and country of origin sunk in blades.... 27

Cuttings (see Stocks, Cuttings, or Seedlings).

Cuttlefish Bone,

on free list ...

75

Cuyahoga River, Ohio,

preliminary examination of, to be made. 674, 955

Cyanide ofPotassium,

duty on

16

Cyanite,

on free list .

76

Cylindrical Furnaces,

duty on welded, and reenforced ................

26

Cynthiana, Ky.,

construction of, public building authorized

at..

681

Cypress Bayou, Tex. and La., appropriation for improvement of...... 650, 945

D.

D Street SW., D. C., between Fourteenth and Fifteenth Streets

to be closed for Engraving and

Printing Bureau building...

707

Dabob Bay, Wash.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 676

Dahlia Bulbs,

duty on .

37

Dairy Farms, D. C., etc., appropriation for inspecting, etc ........ 402, 994
Dairy Industry,

appropriation for investigations and experi-

ments in ...

420, 1239

Dairy Products,

appropriation for disseminating, etc., in-

formation concerning....

419, 1239

Dakota National Forest, N. Dak.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1248

Dale County, Ala.,

time extended to dam Choctawhatchee

River in .....

905

Dallas, Tex.,

terms of court at..

1125

Dalles, Oreg., The, appropriation for public building ..............
Damage, no allowance for, on imported wines, etc..
Damage Allowance on Imported Perishable Articles,
forbidden, except under regulations............... abandonment permitted if more than ten
per cent of invoice......
examination, delivery, etc......... Damask,
duty on, cotton table.....

Page. 1370
40
102 102 102 48

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

48

Dams,

general regulations for constructing, across navigable waters for power, etc ... 593

plans, etc., to be approved by Secretary of War and Chief of Engineers. 593

maintenance of locks, sluices; free use of

power by Government ..

594

general plans of improvements to be

considered ..

594

charges for improvements by United

States ...

594

reservoirs, etc ..

594

rights reserved for navigation

594

flowage damages; lights, fishways, etc.;

penalties .

594

forfeiture for noncompliance with re-

quirements..

595

revoked if needed for public use....

595

20 termination in 50 years; exception.... 595

penalty for violations; removal, etc ..

595

time for construction, etc.

$96

right to alter, etc., reserved.......................

596

construction of terms ..

596

to conform with plans for navigation of

streams ...

669

construction authorized across Colorado

River, near Parker, Ariz ..

1081

- Pyramid Canyon.

909

James River, Mo..

929

Lake Namakan, Kettle Falls, Minn... 931

Minnesota River, Minn....

932

Mississippi River, Coon Creek Rapids,

Minn ..

893

New River, near Foster Falls, Va...

921

Ivanhoe, Va .

922

Rock River, near Byron, Ill ......

922

Lyndon, Ill..

920

Saint Joseph River, Mottville, Mich.

904

Sturgis, Mich...

893

Savannah River, Cherokee Shoals, S. C. 922

at mouth of Stevens Creek, S. C. and

Ga..

180

Turtle Bay, Tex .

828

White River, Taney County, Mo..

897

time extended for constructing, across

Choctawhatchee River, Dale

County, Ala.

905

Mississippi River, Morrison County,

Minn..

1359

at Sauk Rapids, Minn

902, 931

Niobrara River on Fort Niobrara Military

Reservation, Nebr ...

920

Danbury, Conn.,

appropriation for public building....

1370

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, site..

207

388

Dandelion Root,

duty on .

39

on free list, raw, unground..

75

Daniel, John W., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

of...

1314

INDEX.

lxv

Danville, Ill.,

Page.

appropriation for public building ..... 704, 1370

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers' Home. 735,

1411

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers'Home . terms of court at.

211, 1310, 1321 1110

Danville, Va.,

De Armond, D. A., late a Representative in Page.

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow of.... 805

De Beque, Colo.,

granted lands for public park.........

460

De Fontes, Joseph,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv

·

ices...

129,807, 1319

appropriation for public building, rent.... 1370

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc.

207

terms of court at.

1128

Darby River, Pa., preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

Dardanelle, Ark.,

changes allowed in building bridge across

Arkansas River at...

189

Darien, Ga., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 643 preliminary examination to be made of harbor and Doboy bar ............ 670, 954

Darien River, Conn., preliminary examination of, to be made... 669

Darlington, S. C., appropriation for public building....................... 1370

Darning Cotton,

duty on.

42

Dates,

duty on .

38

Datil National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Dauphin Bay, Ala.,

construction of wharves, etc., in, author-

ized..

869

- Dauphin Island, Ala.,

sale of tracts of land on, authorized..

1350

DauphinIsland Railway and Harbor Company,

authorized to construct bridges, etc., in

Mobile Bay..

868

wharves and docks in Mobile Bay, etc.. 869

channel into Dauphin Bay; dredging,

etc......

869

De Land, Fla., appropriation for public building................... 1370

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

689

de Olivares, José,

deficiency appropriation for.........................

801

De Soto, Mo.,

appropriation for public building..

1370

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Dead Letters Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc..

521, 1223

Dead Oil,

on free list..

74

Deadwood, S. Dak.,

appropriation for assay office at..

499, 1201

deficiency appropriation for assay office at. 1292

terms of court at .

1124

DeafandDumb Institution, D. C.(seeColumbia Institution for Deafand Dumb,D.C.).

Deafand Dumb Persons, census schedules to indicate.........

Dealers in Leaf Tobacco, all persons selling leaf tobacco to manufac-

turers, regarded as.

110

farmers and producers, excepted .

110

subject to laws governing.

111

Dealers in Leaf Tobacco, Retail,

provisions governing ..

111

Deals,

duty on, sawed cabinet wood........

33

sawed whitewood, sycamore, and bass-

4

wood..

33

legal rights, etc., not impaired . former act repealed.....

869 Deards, Elizabeth,

869 deficiency appropriation for services..

805

time ofconstruction and completion.......... 869 Death, International Commission for Revising

Davenport, Iowa,

Classification ofDiseases andCauses of,

terms of court at ..

1111 commission to be appointed to....

1

Davis Ferry, Ky.,

Debates in Congress,

bridge authorized across Green River at... 852 appropriation for reporting, House of Rep-

Davis, Lieutenant N. H.,

resentatives ....

477,1180

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

for reporting, Senate..

473, 1175

counts..

778

for printing and binding..

768, 1446

Davis, Warren J.,

Debauchery (see White Slave Traffic Act).

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1316 Dawson, Clarence E.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1315

Dawson County, Mont.,

appropriation forsurveying public lands in. 741 bridge authorized across Yellowstone

River, in

600

Dawson, Lieutenant- Colonel William C.,

Marine Corps,

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts..

1305

Dayton, Ohio,

appropriation for public building...... 704, 1370

contract for new site....

704

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers'

Home ..

732, 1408

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home .

220

for public building..

1293

construction of public building authorized

at; limit of cost; contracts ..

694

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized..

680

terms of court at.

1122

Decalcomanias, duty on lithographically printed..............................
Decanters, duty on glass, decorated , etc.. ·
Decay ofImported Fruit, etc., regulations for allowance for.
Decennial Census Period,
census reports to be completed and published within............
Deck and Bulb Beams, duty on iron or steel..
Deckers Creek, W. Va., preliminary examination of, to be made..
Declaration of Independence,
nothing repugnant to principles of, permitted in constitution of Arizona...
of New Mexico ... Decoctions,
duty on, of dyewoods not specially provided for......
Deep Bay, N. C., appropriation for improvement of waterway connecting Swan Quarter Bay with...

63 . 19 102
22 676 569 558 13
642

2

SS740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-98

lxvi

INDEX . 1

Deep Creek, N. C.,

Page.

preliminary examination to be made of.. 954

Deer Island Thoroughfare, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Deerlodge National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Defective, Aliens Morally or Physically,

excluded admission.

263

Deficiency Appropriations- Continued.

Page.

for awards, Spanish Treaty Claims Com-

mission..

129, 218, 807

for printing and binding.... 129, 217, 806, 879, 891

for Library of Congress.

129

for Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition .

130

for Department of Agriculture...

215, 1312

for judgments, Indian depredation claims.. 218,

Defending Suits in Claims,

appropriation for expenses. deficiency appropriation for..

747,1424 798

Defflins Ferry, Wash.,

bridge authorized across Okanogan River

at...

294

808, 1320

for claims certified by accounting offi-

cers ...

219,808, 1320

for Post Office Department...

801, 1314

postal service..

802, 1314

for Civil Service Commission.

1290

Defiance, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized .'

at....

682

contracts for completing Panama Canal

authorized..

130

NationalWaterwaysCommission, expenses,

Deficiency Appropriations,

etc., allowed ..

130

for Executive Office..

119 Degras,

commission on railroad stock and bond

duty on..

38

...

issues....

119, 774 Del Rio Tex.;

for Department of State.. 119, 203, 774, 888, 1290

foreign intercourse............

774, 888, 1290

for Treasury Department:. 119, 204, 775, 889, 1290

collecting corporation tax.

120

public buildings .

121,206, 779, 889, 1293

Washington, D. C. , new department

buildings, etc...

780

National Museum...

121

national-bank currency.

204

Engraving and Printing Bureau...... 205, 1293

appropriation for public building ........ bridge authorized across Rio Grande to
Mexican bank from... terms of court at....
Delavan, Wis.,
appropriation for public building.... acquiring site and erecting public building
at, authorized... Delaware,
assigned to third judicial circuit

1370 853 1127 . 1370 688 1131

mints and assay offices . internal revenue..

206, 1292 780, 1291

collecting customs revenue. Smithsonian Institution ..
government in Territories.

781, 1294
781 782

Public Health and Marine-Hospital Serv-

ice.....

1295

for Interstate Commerce Commission..

121

Delaware and Bound Brook Railroad Company, may bridge Delaware River, Lower Make-

field, Pa., to Ewing, Ñ. J.

959

Delaware Bay,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge...

638, 936

for pier in, near Lewes, Del.

638, 936

for inland waterway from Chincoteague

for District of Columbia.... 122, 208, 782, 1296

for War Department... 122, 209, 788, 889, 1300

Army..

122, 210, 789, 889, 1300

Military Academy...

210, 790, 1302

Volunteer Soldiers' Home...

211, 1301

river and harbor work...

1301

Isthmian Canal.

211

for State, War, and Navy Department

Building..

788

for Interior Department... 123, 212, 795, 889, 1305

Geological Survey..

124, 795, 890, 1309

Indian Department..... Capitol... public lands. pensions ... for Navy Department. Navy... Naval Academy.

124, 212, 797, 880, 1307 795, 889, 1306 796, 1307 -1310
211,790, 889, 1302
211, 791, 889, 1302 1304

Marine Corps.....

794, 1305

for Department of Justice. 125, 213, 798,

890 ...

1310

United States courts.... 125, 214, 799, 890, 1311

United States Court of Customs Appeals. 214

Commerce Court.....

890

Bay to..

639

Delaware Judicial District, terms of court ..

466, 1108

Delaware River, Pa. , N. J., and Del.,

appropriation for improvement of, from

Fishers Point to Delaware Bay..

637

for improvement of, from Philadelphia

to the sea; contracts...

936

between Philadelphia and Tren-

ton ..

637,-1406

removal of ledge at mouth of Neversink

River; condition..

637

for lighting...

754

deficiency appropriation for post lights,

Philadelphia to Trenton .

126

bridge authorized across, Lower Makefield,

Pa., to Ewing, N.J..

959

preliminary examination of, Bordentown,

N. J., to be made..

673

Morrisville, Pa...

953

Delegatesfrom Territories,

appropriation for compensation....
for mileage.. for clerk hire. for stationery..

473, 1175 473, 1176 478, 1180
183

for Department of Commerce and Labor.. 125, punishment for practicing in Court of

215, 800, 1312

Claims....

1136

Immigration Service.... Standards Bureau....

216, 800, 1312216

Bureau of Light-Houses.

800

for Senate...

126, 216, 802, 879, 891, 1314

for House of Representatives..

128,

217,805, 880, 881, 891, 1317

forjudgments, United States courts. 128, 217, 1319

for judgments, Court of Claims..

129,

218,807, 891, 1319

unpaid bills for speeches, etc., to be deducted from salaries of delinquent.. 1446
Deleterious Foods, Drugs, etc. ,

appropriation for expenses, preventing

sale, etc., of....

432, 1255

Delivery Services,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce ....

545

Demijohns,

duty onglass, plain, covered or uncovered . 19

INDEX .

lxvii

Demography, International Congress on Hy- Pago. | Department of Agriculture-Continued.

Page.

giene and,

appropriation for drainage investiga-

appropriation for expenses, etc........ 341, 1034

tions ....

439, 1263

invitation to States to participate in Fif-

for Office of Public Roads..

439, 1263

teenth.

873

interchangeable expenses....

439, 1264

to be held in United States in 1911 or 1912. 874

investigating cost of food supplies...440, 1264

Denatured Alcohol,

salaries of scientific investigators, lim-

appropriation for chemists, etc., office of

ited ......

440

Commissioner of Internal Reve-

fences along international boundary

nue....

491, 1193

lines to keep out diseased animals.. 440

Denison Coal Company,

detailed estimates for salaries of all

relinquishment of old, and grant of new, lands under Choctaw and Chicka-

officers and employees to be sub-

mitted...

440

saw coal lease of........ Denison, Iowa,

832

for enforcing insecticide act..

1264

for fighting forest fires, emergency

1264

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

for study, etc., of chestnut-bark disease.. 1264 requirement for detailed report of em-

Denison, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement, of Red

River, between Fulton, Ark., and.. 648

for public building.......

1370

limit of cost increased, public building.......... 679

· ployees from lump-sum appropria--

tions, etc., repealed....

1264

· detailed statement of Forest Service

expenditures and receipts from 1900

to 1910 to be made...

1265

Denmark, appropriation for minister to................. for secretary of legation.....

337, 1027 337, 1028

Dental Corps, Army,

attached to Medical Department as dental

employees allowed expenses of trans-

ferring effects, etc. , when stations

are changed......

1265

for tests of plants, etc., for making paper. 753

for printing and binding..

769, 1447

surgeons and acting dental surgeons . 1054

appointments, examinations, and promo-

tions...

1054

rank, pay, and allowances...

1054

deficiency appropriation for Chemistry

Bureau..

215, 224, 1324

for national bison range, fencing....

215

for Bureau of Animal Industry... 223, 811, 814

eligibility, etc., of present contract

dental surgeons.....

1055

board of examiners, etc...

1055

Dental Surgeons, Army,

for Plant Industry Bureau.. 223, 812, 814, 1324

for Forest Service...

224,

226,812, 814, 1312, 1324, 1327

for soil investigations...

224

appropriation for..

249, 1042

for Weather Bureau.

224, 812, 1324, 1327

Dentifrices,

duty on..

16

Denver, Colo.,

appropriationfor mint at.. for public building, post-office...
term of circuit court ofappeals at....

497, 1199 704, 1370
1133

appellate, proceedings from Colorado,

Utah, Wyoming, and New Mexico

to be heard at Cheyenne or................... . 1133

terms of district court at...

1108

Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

"Solicitor, clerks, etc.....

416, 1235

all legal work to be under Solicitor... 416

detailsoflawclerks out ofWashington. 416

for Weather Bureau.....

417, 1236

cooperation with otherbureaus, etc. 418, 1237

for Bureau of Biological Survey.

812

for Statistics Bureau...

812, 1324

for enforcing insecticide Act.

1312

for fighting forest fires.....

1312

for Court of Claims judgments under.. 1319

for eradicating cattle ticks...

1324

for sugar-manufacture experiments.

1324

for Division of Publications.

1324

for botanical investigations...

1327

Diseases of Cattle, revised edition ordered

of Special Report on...

1459

Diseases of the Horse, revised edition or-

dered of Special Report on..

1459

on free list, plants, trees, etc., for..

78

Department ofCommerce and Labor,

appropriation for solicitor of the, clerks,

etc..

524, 1226

for Animal Industry Bureau . for Bureau of Plant Industry.
seed distribution.....

419, 1238 420, 1241 423 , 1243

for Secretary, Assistant, clerks, etc... 524, 1226

agents investigating trade conditions

abroad...

524, 1226

for Forest Service ..

424, 1244

national forests..

425, 1247

for Bureau of Chemistry.

431, 1254

enforcing pure-food law..

432, 1255

for Bureau of Soils...

432, 1255

for Bureau of Entomology.

433, 1256

.' for Bureau of Biological Survey. 434, 1257

for Division of Accounts and Disburse-

ments...

434,1258

details for Forest Service..

435, 1258

deputy disbursing officer; duties..

1259

for Division of Publications...

435, 1259

salary assignments permitted.. for Bureau of Corporations, salaries ..
special attorneys, etc..... for Bureau of Manufactures, salaries .
collating foreign tariffs... for Bureau of Labor, salaries.....
miscellaneous expenses..
for Light-House Board... for Bureau of Lighthouses, salaries.. for Census Office...
for Bureau of Statistics, salaries..
collecting statistics..

524
525, 1226 525, 1227 525, 1227 525, 1227 525, 1227 525, 1227
526 1228
526, 1228 526, 1228 526, 1228

for Bureau of Statistics.. for library...
details permitted.. for contingent expenses......

436, 1260 436, 1260
1261
437, 1261

for Office of Experiment Stations .... 437, 1261

reports, etc., on farmers' institutes. 438, 1262

nutrition investigations ...

438, 1262

irrigation investigations..

438, 1262

for Steamboat-Inspection Service.... 526, 1228

salaries, etc., service at large.

1228

for Bureau of Navigation, salaries.... 526, 1229

shipping service at large, salaries, etc.. 1229

wireless communication...

1230

for Bureau of Immigration and Naturali-

zation....

527, 1230

Naturalization Division........... 527, 1230

lxviii

INDEX .

Department ofCommerce and Labor-Contd. Page.

appropriation for Bureau of Immigration

and Naturalization; Information

Division...

527, 1230

for Bureau of Standards, salaries, equip

ment, etc.....

527, 1230

member, International Committee of

Weights and Measures... ... 528, 1231

delegates, International Committee of

Electrical Units....

528, 1232

investigating destructive effects of elec-

tric currents on buildings, etc... 528, 1232

for contingent expenses.....

528, 1232

for rent..

529, 1232

for civil expenses under.. for Bureau of Light-Houses.. for Coast and Geodetic Survey.. for Fisheries Bureau..
Alaskan fisheries service.

753, 1430 753, 1430 755, 1432 ... 758, 1435
1441

for Alaskan seal fisheries ..

763

for immigration expenses. Chinese exclusion ...
immigration inspectors.. detailed estimates ..

763, 1441 764 764 764

lease of office at Montreal, Canada......... 764

for Ellis Island station.....

764

for expenses, division of naturalization.. 764

assistance to clerks of courts..

765

for witness fees to Austrian seamen .... 765

for expenses, shipping commissioners .. 765

for investigating structural materials. 765, 1232

fordesigns and estimates for newbuilding. 1384

for printing and binding for...

769, 1447

for international commercial directory;

sale

769

deficiency appropriation for Light-House

Establishment..

126,

224, 800, 814, 1313, 1324

forImmigration Service. 126, 216, 812, 814, 1312

for Immigration Commission...

215

for Standards Bureau... 216, 224, 801, 1313

for paying judgments, United States

courts, under.

218

for Corporations Bureau..

.224

for naturalization of aliens...

224

for Chinese exclusion...

224,812, 1324

for Coast and Geodetic Survey .

224,

227, 1314, 1324

for Fisheries Bureau.....

224, 1324

for collecting commercial statistics..... 226

for plans, etc. , building for...

780

for contingent expenses..

800

for Bureau of Light-Houses, salaries .

800

for Immigration and Naturalization Bu-

reau...

800

for John J. Cannon and Benjamin

Smith

801

for Rafael Chapa, Juan C. Gonzales, and

Eduardo Trevino..

801

for R. L. Reid....

801

for José de Olivares..

801

for Judson S. Walter.

801

for Census Office....

812

for William L. Soleau..

1313

for Court of Claims judgments under.. 1319

bonds of surety companies, restriction on

acceptance of.......

125

commission authorized to investigate

rates, etc....

126

Census Office special agents, compensation. 126

designs and estimates for building for, to be

prepared; cost...

698

approval by board; appropriation author-

ized ...

698

expert technical, etc., services author-

ized; compensation, etc..

698

edition ofDaily Consular Reports increased 821

Department ofCommerce and Labor-Contd. Page.

Immigration Commission records to be-

come part of files of...

800

payment to Alice V. Houghton..

1313

Department of English and History, Military

Academy,

status of head of...

312

appointment of civilian as professor; rank,

pay, etc...

312

Department of Justice,

appropriation for Attorney-General, Solici-

tor-General, Assistants...

522, 1224

for solicitors, attorneys...

522, 1224

for chief clerk, examiners, law clerks,

clerks, etc..

523, 1225

transfersfrom lump appropriations..... 523

for Division of Investigation...

1225

for Division of Accounts...

523, 1225

for contingent expenses....

523, 1225

for official transportation ..

524, 1225

for rent.....

524, 1225

forSolicitor of the Treasury, etc.

524, 1225

for Solicitor of the Department of Com-

merce and Labor, etc.....

524, 1226

for United States courts.... 529,749,,1232, 1425

for civil expenses under..

747, 1423

for court-house, D. C...... for Court of Claims building.

747, 1423 747

forconstruction ofpenitentiaries...... 747, 1423

for National Training School for Boys,

D. C......

747, 1423

for Assistant Attorney-General, Deputy,

attorneys, etc., in customs cases . 747, 1424

for supplies, etc. , customs cases.... 747, 1424

for witness fees, etc., before Board of

General Appraisers, from customs

expenses..

1424

for defending suits in claims..

747, 1424

for detection and prosecution of crimes,

etc.

748, 1424

for inspection ofprisons and prisoners. 748, 1424

for investigation and prosecution of

frauds...

748, 1424

for defense, Indian depredation cases. 748, 1424

for prosecution of fraudulent convey-

ances, Kickapoo Indian allotments

in Oklahoma...

748, 1425

for travelingand emergency expenses. 748, 1425

credit to disbursing clerk for advances. 1425

for Alaska court expenses...

748, 1425

for enforcing antitrust laws...

748, 1425

for setting aside conveyances, allotments

to Five Civilized Tribes..

748, 1425

for volume 27, Opinions of the Attorney-

General...

749

for opinions and briefs of Solicitor of the

Treasury...

749

forinvestigating titles to lands in District

of Columbia..

749

for enforcing acts to regulate commerce.. 1425

for suits affecting Seminole allotments... 1425

for penitentiaries .

751, 1427

for National Training School for Boys,

D. C....

753, 1429

for printing and binding for.

769, 1447

fordesigns andestimates fornewbuilding. 1384 deficiency appropriation for United

States courts... 125, 214, 224, 227, 799, 812,

814, 890, 1311, 1324, 1327

forattorneys in special cases...

125

for National Training School for Boys,

D. C....

125,800

equipment ofshop authorized ..

800

for rent..

125

forrent ofadditional quarters ...

1310

for Assistant Attorney-General, Deputy,

attorneys, etc., in customs cases.. 125, 214

INDEX.

Ixix

Department of Justice-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for furniture and

repairs

· 213

for contingent expenses..

213, 798, 1310

for defense, Indian depredation

claims..

213, 1311

for investigating, etc., frauds upon the

revenues ..

213

for prosecution of crimes............ 213, 1311

for Alaska court expenses .

214, 1310

for United States Court of Customs Ap-

peals.....

214.

for miscellaneous and incidental ex-

penses...

214

for paying judgments United States .

courts under ...

218

for paying Court of Claims judgments

under..

218,807, 1319

forprosecuting Indians inArizona. 224,227, 1327

for plans, etc., new building for.

780

for court-house, D. C. , repairs ..

798

for special repairs....

798

for defending suits in claims..

798

forWestern Union Telegraph Company.. 798

for Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone

Company..

798

for books for judges and district attor-

neys .

798

for A. C. Caine.......................................

799

for interstate commerce expenses

799

for printing and binding..

807

for court ofappeals building, D. C ........... 1310

for Goulder, Holding and Maston

1310

forW. K. Kimball.

1311

for repairs to court-house, Fairbanks,

Alaska .....

1311

Assistant Attorney-General to be ap-

pointed forcustoms cases..

108

salary fixed...

214

attorneys for customs cases to be ap-

pointed, number, pay, etc....

108

Deputy Assistant Attorney-General to be

appointed for customs cases..

108

designs and estimates for building for, to

be prepared; cost...

698

approval by board; appropriation author-

ized ...

698

expert technical, etc., services author-

ized;compensation, etc..

698

Federal jails in Oklahoma, transferred to

counties, etc..

702

superintendent of prisons to act on boards

of parole at penitentiaries.......

819

Department ofState,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

chief clerk...

483, 1186

salary of Secretary increased..

1186

for assistant solicitors, chiefs of bureaus,

clerks, etc...

483, 1186

for emergency clerical services..

484, 1186

for clerks distributing informations

among missions ....

484, 1186

for Director of the Consular Service,

Counselor, and resident diplomatic

officer..

484, 1186

for officers on tariff, treaty, and trade

relations, etc.....

484, 1186

for assistant solicitor, law clerk, clerks,

etc....

484, 1186

for rent for bureau of trade relations,

etc...

484, 1187

for expenses, treaty, tariff, and trade

:elations

484, 1187

forstationery, furniture, etc....

485, 1187

for lbioborkosr,. periodicals,

etc.,

for the 485, 1187

Department of State- Continued . appropriation for lithographer, etc. for miscellaneous expenses...
forrent ofannex....
for solicitorforthe..

Page.
485, 1187 485, 1187 485, 1187 522, 1224

fordiplomatic and consular service... 337, 1027

for printing in the .

340, 1030

for North Atlantic fisheries arbitration . 765

for Canadian water boundaries commis-

sion......

766

forprintingand bindingfor..

768, 1446

for replica of von Steuben statue to be

presented to German Emperor....

886

for Canadian Fisheries Commission..

1364

for international conference on letters

of exchange...

1364

for designs and estimates for new build-

ing....

1384

deficiency appropriation for expenses of foreign trade and treaty relations... 119

for division of far eastern affairs, em-

ployees, etc., under direction of

Secretary of State...

119

for International Union for Protection

ofIndustrial Property..

119

forforeign intercourse..... for lithographing..

203,774, 888 223

fordiplomatic and consular service.

223,

226, 811, 814, 888, 1290, 1324 for G. R. Caswell Lumber Company, "

and W. K. Baldwin...

775

for W. M. Malloy..

775

for plans, etc., building for..

780

for cipher code...

1289

for credit in accounts of disbursing

clerk....

1289

for pay of Secretary..

1290

buildings for embassies, legations, and con-

sulates abroad, authorized ..

917

designs and estimates for building for,

to be prepared; cost..

698

approval by board; appropriation au-

thorized..

698

expert technical, etc. , services author-

ized; compensation, etc...

698

marking boundary in Passamaquoddy Bay,

to be paid from appropriation for

arbitration commission...

775

North Atlantic Fisheries Arbitration

document ordered printed; copies

for........

1456

printing of Senate Document No. 357,

compilation of treaties, etc., ordered

for..

1454

Departments, Executive,

Census information to be furnished by, on

request..

10

Dependencies of Foreign Countries,

extension of tariff schedules to, by procla-

mation of the President....

82

Depere, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 656

Deportation of Aliens,

imported for prostitution or immoral pur-

poses..

265

return to country of origin after expiration of sentence for prostitution, etc. 265

Deposit Savings Association, Mobile, Ala., deficiency appropriation for creditors of.. 120

Depositing Public Moneys, Land Opices,

appropriation for expenses..

739, 1415

Deputy Assistant Attorney-General,

to be appointed by Attorney-General, for

customs cases; pay...

108

appropriation for

.... 742, 1424

deficiency appropriation for.....

214

lxx

INDEX .

Deputy Auditors ofthe Treasury,

Page.

abolished; transfer of duties...

1190

Des Moines, Iowa,

appropriation for public building.....

704

land office at, abolished ........

193

transfer of records, etc. , to State..

193

terms of court at..

1111

Deschutes National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 426, 1248 Desert Land Act,

entries permitted under, subject to coal

rights....

583

Desert Land Entries,

on landa temporarily withdrawn for power

sites, etc., not impaired......

848

second, allowed, if former lost, etc.

896

requirements; parties excluded ..

896

Desert Lands (see also Carey Act),

appropriation for examination of...... 740, 1415

additional grant to Nevada under Carey

Act of..

1417

entries in Imperial County, Cal. , con-

firmed...

867

reserved for reservoirs, Millard County,

Utah, restored to entry...

932

temporary withdrawal from entry, pend,

ing applications by States or Territo-

ries...

237

time extended for making final proofs of

entries in certain counties in Wash-

ington.....

960

Desplaines River, Ill.,

appropriation for waterway from Lockport

to Mississippi River by Illinois

River and ....

659

board of engineers to report on advis-

ability..

660

Destitute Women and Children, D. C.,

appropriation for payments to abandoned,

etc ..

406, 997

Detroit Harbor, Wis., preliminary examination of to be made... 676
Detroit, Mich.,

appropriation for marine postal service; ·

contracts authorized ...

361

for river postal service

1333

four-year contracts allowed for...

1333

for marine hospital, smoking rooms..

710

granted Alter road as public highway.

235

light-house depot, oil house authorized at.. 536

loan oftents, etc. , authorized for reunion of

Elks at .

885

loan to Museum of Art, the silver service ·

presented by the City to U. S. S.

"Detroit"; conditions..

1272

terms of court at.

1115

Detroit River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of ...... 655, 947

for improvement of Livingstone Channel . 655,

729, 1405

for aids to navigation, Livingstone Chan-

nel....

1431

aids to navigation authorized to mark Liv-

ingstone Channel in....

931

preliminary examination of, to be made . 672

"Detroit," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.

621

loan to Detroit, Mich. , of silver service pre-

sented by the City to ; conditions ... 1272

Devils Lake, N. ak.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Sioux In-

dians at..

279, 1068

terms of court at .

1121

"Dewey," Dry Dock, deficiency appropriation for repairing, etc. 793

Dextrine,

Page.

duty on.

39

substitutes...

39

Dials,

duty on enameled watch, etc.; require-

ments.

31

on free list, white glass enamel for .

76

Diamidostilbendisulfoacid,

on free list...

74

Diamonds,

duty on, cut but not set..

68

on free list, bort...

75

dust....

75

engravers', not set..

75

glaziers' , not set..

75

miners' , not set.....................

75

rough, etc.

75

Dianisidin,

on free list...

74

Dice,

duty on ivory, bone, etc...........

66

Dickinson, N. Dak., appropriation for public building..

1370

acquiring site for public building at, author-

ized...

691

Die Blanks or Blocks, Steel,

duty on..

23

Die Blocks, Steel,

duty on:

23 .

Dielytra Clumps,

duty on.

37

Dierken, Joseph, deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127
Dies, Rolls, and Plates, United States Securi-

ties,

appropriation for custody of... ..... 714, 1391

Digest of Private Claims, House ofRepresenta-

tives,

appropriation for clerks preparing..

474

Digest of Rules, House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for preparing....

473, 1176

Digests of Supreme Court Reports,

distribution of, by Attorney General..... 1154

Dike,

construction of, authorized across Olalla

Slough, Oreg...

855

Dillon, Henry D.,

allowance of accounts of, as assistant inspec-

tor of furniture....

208

Dimethylanilin,

on free list.

74

"Dingley Tariff Act,"

termination of reciprocal commercial agree-

ments under.

83

Diphenylamin,

on free list...

74

Diplomatic and Consular Service,

appropriation for diplomatic service ... 337, 1027

for salaries, ambassadors and ministers 337, 1027

for agent, etc., Cairo .......

337, 1028

officials not to receive other salaries. 337, 1028

for chargés d'affaires ad interim...... 337, 1028 for salaries, secretaries of embassies and

legations....

-337, 1028

for instruction and transit pay..

338, 1029

for clerks at embassies and legations. 338, 1029

for interpreters at embassies and lega-

tions...

338, 1029

for student interpreters to embassies and

legations...

339, 1029

for quarters, etc., student interpreters,

Japan...

339, 1030

Turkey..

339, 1030

for contingent expenses, missions.... 340, 1030

dispatch agents .....

.340, 1030

INDEX .

lxxi

Diplomatic and Consular Service-Continued. Page. | Diplomatic and Consular Service Continued. Page.

appropriation for printing in the Depart-

deficiency appropriation for International

of State.....

340, 1030

Conference on Maritime Law ...

203

loss by exchange..

340, 1030

for Saint John River Commission ..

203

for transportation of diplomatic and con-

sular officers...

340, 1030

forInternational Agricultural Exhibition,

Buenos Aires.

203

for steam launch, Constantinople.... 340, 1030

for International Exposition of Fine

forground rent, Tokyo, Japan....... 340, 1030

for Cape Spartel Light, Tangier.. for bringing home criminals.. for life-saving testimonials...

.340, 1030 340, 1031 340, 1031

for expenses, neutrality act...

340, 1031

for unforseen emergencies...

341, 1031

forheirs of officers dying abroad.. 341, 1031

Arts, Buenos Aires..

203

for Exhibition of Fine and Applied Arts,

Santiago, Chile:

203

forbuilding, Bureau ofAmerican Repub-

lics..

203

for transportation, diplomatic and consular officers... 223, 226, 774, 811, 814, 1324

for bringing home remains of offi-

cers ...

341, 1031

for chargés d'Affaires ad interim.

223,

226, 774, 811

for Congress of Hygiene and Demog-

raphy...

341, 1034

forcontingent expenses, missions . 223, 884, 1324

for consular salaries..

223, 1324

International Congress on Social In- surance; invitation.. 1034

for Bureau of Weights and Measures. 341, 1031

for Bureau of Customs Tariffs..

341, 1031

for Mexican Boundary Commission.. 342, 1032

for Bureau for Repression of African

Slave Trade....

342, 1032

for Prison Commission..

342

for Geodetic Association...

342, 1032

for clerks at consulates..

223, 1324

for contingent expenses, consulates.. 223, 1324

for clerks at embassies and legations..

774

for International Institute ofAgriculture 774

for International Industrial Property

· Union.......

775, 1290

forcommission for celebration ofMexican

Independence ...

775

for Pan-American Conference ..

775

forrepairs to legations and consulates. 342, 1032

for Bureau of American Republics...... 342

for Pan American Union..

1032

forpermanent court of arbitration.... 342, 1032

for International Institute of Agricul-

ture....

343, 1032

for international investigation of opium

evil .

.775

for International Seismological Associa-

tion..

1290

for Saint John River commission..

1290

for Canadian water boundaries commis-

for International Railway Congress...... 343.

sion; rent..

1290

for International Sanitary Bureau... 343, 1033

for secretaries of embassies and legations. 1324

for work ofJoint High Commission.......... 343 forboundaryline, Alaskaand Canada. 343, 1033

Ecuador given United States building used

at Quito Exposition.

203

for United States court for China..... 344, 1033
for marking Canadian boundary..... 344, 1033 for Canadian fisheries commission.... 344, 1033

estates of deceased citizens transmitted by consular officers to Treasury to be
held by Auditor as conservator, etc. 1083

for International Office of Public

Health...

344, 1034

for International Seismological Asso-

ciation....

344

for international boundary line in Passa-

marking boundary in Passamaquoddy Bay

to be paid from appropriation for ar-

bitration commission.

775

purchase of buildings, etc., for embassies, legations, andconsulates, authorized. 917

maquoddy Bay... for installment to Colombia..

344 Diplomatic Officer, Department of State, Resi-

345

dent,

for international expositions, Rome and

appropriation for.

484, 1186

Turin, Italy..

345 Diplomatic Officers,

for International Parliamentary Union.. 345 appropriation for instruction and transit

for investigating Samoan claims.....

1034

pay .

338, 1029

for arbitration of title to Chamizal tract. 1034

for transportation to and from posts.. 340, 1030

for Red Cross Conference ....

1034

for paying heirs of, dyingabroad.... 341, 1031

for International Congress on Alcohol-

ism....

1034

for bringing home from abroad, remains

of.

341, 1031

for consular service..

345, 1035 deficiency appropriation for transportation. 223,

for salaries, consuls-general, consuls, and

226, 774, 811, 814, 1324

consular inspectors....

... 345,1035 jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

for expenses, consular inspectors..... 345, 1035

for consular assistants....

345, 1035

sive ofState, in suits against, ortheir

domestics....

1161

for clerks at consulates...

346, 1035 Director ofthe Consular Service,

for interpreters, etc:, at consulates... 346, 1035 appropriation for..

484, 1186

for marshals, consular courts... for consular prisons...

346, 1035 Director ofthe Mint (see also Mints and Assay

346, 1035

Offices),

for relief and protection of American

appropriation for, examiner, assayer, clerks,

seamen.

346, 1036

etc..

402, 1194

for foreign hospitals, Cape Town and

Panama...

346, 1036

for freight on bullion and coin. for contingent expenses.

492, 1194 492, 1194

for Seamen's Institute, Kobe.. for contingent expenses...

347, 1036 347, 1036

for examinations, etc .. for incidentals.

492, 1194 492, 1194

loss by exchange..

347, 1036

for purchase of land, consulate at Amoy. 347

for collecting precious metalsstatistics 492, 1194 to keep series of weights, corresponding to

deficiency appropriation for International Bureau of Weights and Measures .... 203
for Pan-American Conference, Fourth... 203

standard troy pound of Bureau of

Standards, at each mint and assay

office ..

1354

lxxii

INDEX .

Directory, International Commercial,

Page. | Distinctive Paper,

Page.

appropriation for printing and binding;

appropriation for United States securities .. 714,

sale ..

769

1390

Disbarment Proceedings, Interior Department,

for national currency.

714, 1391

appropriation for expenses of testimony

in..

744, 1419

Disbursing Officers,

deficiency appropriation for national cur-

rency.

204

for United States securities.

204, 1295

proceedings in Court of Claims for settle-

District Attorneys, United States Courts,

ment of unadjusted accounts of..... 1141 appropriation for salaries and expenses. 749, 1426

cases to be reported to Congress by At-

torney General...

1142

payment to clerks acting as, during

vacancies.....

749, 1426

Discolorations, etc.,

salaries, New Jersey and Nevada.

1426

no allowance for, on imports ofiron or steel, or manufactures of..

for fees, District of Columbia . for regular assistants...

750, 1426 750, 1426

Discriminating Duty,

for special assistants .

750, 1426

imposed on importations in foreign vessels. 87 deficiency appropriation for salaries and

through contiguous countries ...

87

exceptions under treaties or Acts of Con-

expenses.. duties under Insecticide Act.

..... 799, 1311 332

285

gress.

87

retail trade with contiguous countries. 87

Discriminations by Common Carriers, Unjust,

Commerce Court to hear suits to pre-

vent....

539, 1148

salaries of, Texas districts, made uniform.. 828

to report to Solicitor of the Treasury suits in which United States is a party... 294

District Building, D. C.,

appropriation for care of........

375, 967

Discriminations, Interstate Commerce,

appointment of employees..

375

damages allowed to parties affected by un-
just, for acts of carriers or shippers.. Discriminations, Unjust,

for fuel, miscellaneous supplies, etc... 375, 968

550

for installing water meters ..

392

District Courts (see also Judicial Code),

minimum tariff applied to imports from

provisions in Judicial Code relating to. 1087-1130.

388

countries making no, against United

customs cases pending in, transferred to

States and products ...

82

Court of Customs Appeals. ... 107, 1145

proclamation announcing, to be issued.. 82 jurisdiction in appeals from Board of Gen-

Diseased Animals,

eral Appraisers to cease..

106

fences permitted along international bound-

to compel attendance, etc., for corporation-

ary lines, to keep out ...

440

tax information...

117

Diseases Among Indians,

District Judges,

appropriation for prevention and treatment

appropriation for.

529, 1233

of.

271, 1059 deficiencyappropriation foradditional, New

Diseases and Causes of Death, International

New York eastern district.

890

Commissionfor Revision ofClassification of,

additional, authorized for Maryland dis-

trict...

201

commissioners to be appointed to.......

1

New York eastern district.

838

Diseases, Animal,

appropriation for preventing spread of,

from one State to another.

420,1239

for scientific investigations in..

420,1240

Diseases, Contagious, D. C.,

appropriation for preventing spread of... 402, 993

Ohio northern district.

202

southern district..

202

one to be appointed for each district... 1087

two or more in certain designated districts . 1087

to serve in two districts in certain desig-

nated cases..

1087

Diseases, Loathsome or Dangerous Contagious,

to reside in district; punishmentforfailure . 1087

aliens afflicted with, excluded admission.. 263 salary of...

1087

Diseases ofCattle, Special Report on,

adjournment of court in absence of.... 1088

printing of revised edition ordered; distri-

designation, in case of disability, of judge

bution ..

1459

from other district..

1089

Diseases ofthe Horse, Special Report on,

printing of revised edition ordered; distri-

bution.

1459

Disinfecting Service, D. C.,

from another circuit..

1089

record of designation.

1089

to dispose of accumulated or urgent busi-

ness...

1089

appropriation for maintenance.

402, 993

Disks,

duty on carbon .

19

on free list, glass, rough-cut, for optical in-

struments .

76

separate courts authorized at the same

time ..

1089

of temporary judge by Chief Justice, in absence of circuit judge or justice . 1089

revocation and new appointment when

Dismal Swamp Canal,

necessary..

1089

82899

purchase of, authorized as part ofwaterway,

Norfolk to Beaufort Inlet ...

640

Distilled Oils,

bysenior circuit judge present in circuit. 1089

of circuit judge to hold district court

where required ....

1089

duty on, not specially provided for. Distilled Spirits (see also Spirits, Distilled) ,
duty on; determination of proof. compounds of.......
preparations of. fruit brandy from artificially sweetened

12

of other judge, in case of disqualification

by interest, etc.

1090

39

when personal bias or prejudice is

40

charged. affidavit required ..

1090 .

40

when judge admits inability.....

1090

District of Columbia,

wine and pomace, exempt from regu-

appropriation for general expenses (half

lations for manufacture of..

1014

from Treasury, half from District

Distilled Spirits, Wines, and Other Beverages,

Schedule H, Tariff of 1909 ..

39

revenues) . for salaries, executive office.

374,966 374, 966

INDEX .

Lxxiii

District of Columbia-Continued . appropriation for index of laws, etc. , relating to the District. · for purchasing officer; duties..
motorcycles for elevator inspectors.... building permits may be canceled and
fee refunded; conditions..

Page.
966 966 967
967

annual leaves, regular annual
ployees; exception.. for care of District Building. for assessor's office...
temporary clerical services. for excise board... for personal-tax board . for collector's office... for auditor's office...... for corporation counsel's office.
for sinking-fund office. for coroner's office... for market masters .

em967
375, 967 375,968
968
376, 968 376, 968 376, 968 376,969
376, 969 376, 969 377, 969 377,969

for superintendent of weights, measures,

and markets ..

377,970

for engineer's office.. for municipal architect's office . for special assessment office. for street-sweeping office...

377, 970 378, 971 379, 971 379, 971

forboardofexaminers, steam engineers. 379, 972

for automobile board .

379, 972

license tax on motor vehicles .

379

for insurance department..

379, 972

annual reports required .. for surveyor's office..

379 379, 972

for free public library..

380, 972

for contingent expenses .

380, 973

restriction on use of horses, etc.. ... 381, 973

illustrations in reports forbidden.... 381

use for fire insurance prohibited .... 381, 973

stable expenses.......

381, 973

postage...
collecting personal taxes.. judicial expenses.. coroner's, etc. , expenses..
inquests restricted ..

381, 973 381, 973 381, 974 381, 974
974

motor vehicle for engineer commis-

sioner....

381

restriction on carriages, motor ve-

hicles, etc.....

381

advertising..

381, 974

enforcing game and fish laws.

382, 974

forsurvey ofdangerous, etc., buildings. 382,974 for erection of tablets to mark historical

places......

382, 974

booktypewriters for recorder ofdeeds.. 974

for copies of wills, etc., to assessor.... 382, 974

for motor-vehicle tags

382, 975

for classifying, etc., old records ..

382

for repairs of buildings injured by fire . 3S2, 975

exchange of typewriters, etc., per-

mitted...

382

for equipping sand and gravel wharf.. 382, 975 for book typewriter for surveyor's office. 382

recording by typewriters authorized .. 382 transfer of Reservation 185 as prop-

erty yard.....

383

for file cases, register of wills..

383

for testing fireproof materials..

383, 975

small purchases without advertising

for contracts .....

975

for makingsurveys of old subdivisionsin . 975

$ for repairs, etc. , to markets...

383, 975

for addition to cement warehouse..

975

for purchase of construction, etc., ma-

terial......

975

for apparatus for asphalt inspector..

975

for eliminating grade crossings, Union

Station.....

383

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for widening of First Street

east..

383

sale, etc., of land not needed for street

purposes...

383

substitution of land for flagstaffs on

plaza.......

383

for assessment and permit work...... 384, 975

for paving roadways.....

975

deposit of collections..

975

for work on streets and avenues; sched-

ules....

384, 975

restriction on streets paved with gran-

ite blocks, etc...

384,976

limit for asphalt pavements...

384, 976

for paving Market Space, from Seventh

to Eighth Streets.

384

D Street NW., from Seventh to Eighth

Streets

384

forrepairing E Street NW., from Eleventh

to Thirteenth Streets..

976

for improving Seventeenth Street NW.,

from B to E Streets ..

976

for connecting Belmont and Fifteenth

Streets NW.

976

forgradingstreets, etc... forcondemningstreets, etc..

385, 976 385, 976

for county roads, construction , etc.... 385, 976

part of U Street NW. to be known as

Vernon Street .

385

for repairs, streets. etc...

386, 977

amount for heater method; contracts.. 386

changes in widths of roadways ..

386

relocation of tracks Anacostia and Po-

tomac River Railroad....

977

for sidewalks and curbs, Government

reservations, etc....

387, 978

McMillan Park..

978

for repairs, county roads..

387, 978

for bridges...

387, 978

subway for Cedar Street under Balti-

more and Ohio tracks.....

387

for improving connecting street between

Sixteenth Street NW. , Columbia and

Quarry Roads...

978

new highway plan northwest, adjoin-

ing Zoological Park; expenses...

978

forbridgeacross Rock Creekat Q Street.. 979

condemning land to widen, etc., Q

Street NW.; expenses.......

979

for sewers, cleaning, etc..

388, 979

for streets, cleaning, etc.....

388, 980

horse-propelled street-washing machine 389

authority to take over contract work;

equipment, etc...

980

for removing snow and ice..

389,980

for disposal of city refuse; contracts... 389, 980

for stable, etc., street-cleaning depart-

ment...

980

for parking commission..

389,980

for bathing beach..

389, 980

for public scales; deep wells..

389, 981

forplaygrounds; from District revenues 389, 981

condemnation for interior park in

square 534.....

981

for public convenience stations.... 390, 981

for condemning insanitary buildings .. 390, 981

for electrical department..

390, 981

for lighting expenses..

390,982

settlement of arc-lighting contract.

9$2

for electric lighting..

391

Union Station Plaza..

391

for additional fire-alarm boxes..

391

for Washington Aqueduct... forfiltration plant ..............

391, 982 392, 982

lxxiv

INDEX .

District of Columbia-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for coagulant plant..

392

for water meters for Government Printing

Office, etc....

392

for emergencies....

392, 983

for McMillan Park, grounds..

983

for Washington Aqueduct, lining..

983

for survey, etc., Patuxent River as a

source of water supply..

983

for remodeling Georgetown reservoir.

983

for repairs to Cabin John Bridge..

983

for Rock Creek Park.....

392, 983

for public schools...

392, 983

for instruction of deaf-mute persons... 398, 989

colored deaf mutes.....

398, 989

for instruction of indigent blind chil-

dren ...

399, 989

forpolice department...

399,990

enforcing child-labor law.

399,990

National Bureau of Criminal Identi-

fication......

399,990

for fire department..

400, 991

restriction on absences from District.. 992

investigation for high-pressure system . 992

for health department...

401, 992

for court of appeals reports ..

403, 994

for probation officers..

994

forjuvenile court...

403, 994

moneys forabandoned families, etc... 403

for police court.......... forlunacy writs..

403, 995 404, 905

formunicipal court.

404, 905

forinterest and sinking fund .

404, 995

for emergency fund ...

404, 996

for support of convicts out of the Dis-

trict..

405, 996

for courthouse employees.. for court of appeals building.. for jail.......
forjail prisoners, etc .. for expenses, supreme court . for Board of Charities ..

405, 996 405, 996
405 996 405, 996 405, 997

for reformatories and correctional insti-

tutions.....

406, 997

for medical charities...

407, 999

acceptance of voluntary medical serv-

ice authorized ..

409

for care of children, etc.

409, 1000

for temporary homes, etc..

410, 1001

acceptance of Night Lodging House by 1001

for support, etc. , of insane..

410, 1002

for relief of the poor..

411, 1002

for transportation of paupers ...... 411, 1002

expenditures for reformatory, etc., within ten miles of Mount Vernon,

prohibited; exception....

1002

for workhouse...

1002

delivery of jail prisoners to workhouse 1002

work to be performed by them..

1002

jurisdiction of Commissioners over.

prisoners...

1003

authority over jail and prisoners trans-

ferred to Commissioners..

1003

jail and asylum combined as Washing-

ton Asylum and Jail..............

1003

superintendent to be appointed; former offices abolished..

1003

duties; bond required ..

1003

commitments hereafter.....

1003

supreme court, D. C. , powers over jail

transferred to Commissioners.......

1003

sale of workhouse products; division of

receipts....... for militia expenses.. for extension of water mains.

1004 411, 1004 412, 1005

for Anacostia River Flats ...

. 1005

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for acquiring Montrose Park. 1005

for water department..

412, 1006

employment of temporary draftsmen,

etc., on sewers, streets, etc ..... 413, 1007

laborers and mechanics.....

413, 1007

horses, wagons, etc...

413, 1007

water department temporary employ-

ees, laborers, etc...

414, 1008

employees to be paid from miscella-

neous trust-fund deposits..

414, 1008

limit ofrequisitions from Treasury. 415, 1008 lighting contracts; maximum rates.... 1008

'transfer of apparatus, etc. , from Super-

intendent of Capitol, etc., to other

offices or the District...

1011

for court of appeals............. for supreme court...

529, 1233 529, 1233

for storehouse for naval militia.

717

for site, etc., for fountain in McMillan

Park...

717

for Zoological Park..

719, 1396

forburial of indigent soldiers, etc., at Ar-

lington...

723, 1400

for improvement and care of public buildings and grounds...... 725, 1402

for destitute patients, Providence Hos-

pital..

731, 1407

for destitute patients, etc., Garfield

Hospital...

731, 1408

forChildren's Hospital, additions, etc. 731, 1408

for courthouse repairs....

747, 1423

for National Training School for Boys,

buildings...

747, 1423

forinvestigating title to lands in..

749

for fees, United States district attor-

ney ...

750, 1426

office expenses restricted .

1426

for city post-office building.

1384

deficiency appropriation for care, etc., of

children..

122

for water main to National Training

School for Boys....

122

for portable schoolhouses..

122

for National Training School for Boys.... 125,

786, 800, 1298

for printing building regulations...

208

issue and sale authorized ..

208

for typewriting public-school pay rolls... 208 for Industrial Home School for Colored

Children.....

209, 1298

forjudgments against.. for support of prisoners..

209, 787, 1299 209, 223, 788

for supreme court expenses.. 209, 788, 1299

for support of convicts...

223, 788, 811, 814

for coroner's office...

782, 783, 1296

for plumbing regulations..

782

for postage....

782, 1296

forjudicial expenses..

782, 1296

for advertising..

783, 1296

for damages..

783

for printing police regulations.

783

for repairs county roads...

783

for improving Nichols Avenue SE.

783

for condemnation expenses....

783

for assessment and permit work...... 783, 1296 for extension of certain streets and

avenues, wholly from District rev-

enues...

783, 1297

for Piney Branch parkway.

784

for purchase of lands, Government reser-

vations...

784, 1297

for sewers..

784

for electrical department..

784

for lighting...

784

forWestern High School Building .

785

INDEX.

lxxv

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for instruction of

blind children..

785

for fire department.

785, 1297

for health department...

785, 1297

for juvenile court...

785, 1297

for lunacy writs...... for Washington Asylum.... for reformatory and workhouse..

785, 1297 785, 1297
785

for jail....

786, 1299

for Home for Aged and Infirm........... 786, 1298

for Eastern Dispensary..

786, 1298

for Tuberculosis Hospital..

787, 1298

for Board of Children's Guardians.... 787, 1298

for naval militia..

787, 1298

for refunding permits.

787, 1299

for Northern Liberty Market claims... 787

for water department....

787

for branch library, Takoma Park.

1296

foradvertising taxes in arrears..

1296

for metal tags, horse-drawn vehicles.

1296

forgrading streets, etc.....

1297

forA. Wilson and Brother, fuel..

1297

for road along bank of Anacostia River.. for public schools . for police court.. for Columbia Polytechnic Institute.. for Industrial Home School.....
for court of appeals building.. for condemning land for Meridian Hill
Park.... streets, etc., change of name of Messmore
Place to Mozart Place ...
part ofTwenty-third Street NW portion of Fifteenth Street NW.
changed to McPherson Place . part of U Street NW to be Vernon
Place... extension of Belmont Road. extension of Columbia Road NW.
extension of Forty-first Street NW. extension of Fourth Street SE.. extension of Franklin Street NE. extension of Massachusetts Avenue
NW ..
extension of Military Road NW.. extension of Newton Place NW. extension of Nineteenth Street NW. extension of Park Place NW.. extension of Princeton Place NW. extension of R Street SE.. extension of Reno Road .
extension of Seventeenth Street NE.. extension of Thirteenth Street NW..
extension of Twenty-third Street SE.. extension of Van Buren Street NW. extension of Waterside Drive... opening road along bank of Anacostia
River ...

1297 1297 1297 1298 1298 1310
1310
1347 240
325
385 232 242 240 243 200
584 242 200 373 199 325 232 887 1347 925 232 1078 _232
353

vacation of Forty-first Street NW., in

part....

292

widening, etc., Cedar Street NE.

387

widening First Street NE..

466

widening of Park Road NW.

888

highways system, changes authorized in

northern section....

241

changes authorized in northwest section 197,

201, 924

condemning lands to extend streets

through reserved subdivisions ..

268

portion of Jefferson Street NW., stricken

from plan of......

240

allowance for temporary employees, in-

creased .

787

bonds not required of United States or,

on appeals, etc.

464

District of Columbia-Continued.

Page.

buildings for Departments of State, Jus-

tice, and Commerce and Labor,

authorized ..

698

change of grade Union Station, assessment

of damages to John B. Lord..

1344

William Frye White...

581

city post-office, construction authorized... 698

closing of D Street SW., between 14th and

15th, for new Engravingand Printing

Bureau building....

707

corporations, Firemen's Insurance Com-

pany, restriction released..

920

Masonic Temple Association, rights of

stockholders to vote..

239

Washington Sanitary Housing Company, dividends... 887

credit directed in disallowed accounts of,

for expenses of militia participating

in Army maneuvers .

123

discriminations against United States

uniforms by theaters, etc., a mis-

demeanor; penalty..

963

elimination of grade crossings, etc., ap-

praisement of damages to property

of Sarah Edwards..........

336

to Margaretha Weideman, etc..

1344

enlarging Capitol grounds to Union Sta-

tion, authorized..

738

fire department, members allowed leave in

cases of illness or injury in line of

duty .

1395

grade crossing changed on Q Street NE.... 199

height of buildings regulated..

452

completion of church above limit per-

mitted

891

included in census of 1910 ..

1

incorporations, American National Red

Cross, charter amended .

604

National McKinley Birthplace Memorial

Association...

1361

Saint Vincent's Orphan Asylum, char-

ter amended..

590

library at Takoma Park, acceptance of

gift from Andrew Carnegie for..

290

Lincoln Memorial Commission created..

898

Meridian Hill Park, acquiring land for, au-
thorized; appropriation authorized.. 700 militia allotment available for expenses

of participating in joint maneuvers,

1908

328

to participate in Army maneuvers, etc.;

expenses, etc ...

329

Montrose Park, acquiring land for, authorized; appropriation authorized .... 701
municipal regulations, issue and sale of... 1299

proceeds half to Treasury and half to

District....

1299

office building for bureaus, etc., authorized 699

pandering defined and punishment pro-

vided for.....

833

parole to female juvenile offenders committed to Reform School 1or Girls... 300

probation system provisions.....

864

public convenience stations at Dupont Circle and Ninth Street between F

and G Streets NW., abandoned... 717

public schools, provisions for substitute

teachers ..

1395

railroad siding to Capitol power plant

continued .

1443

railroad siding to navy-yard directed...

615

location, etc...

615

appropriation for right of way

615

construction..

615

use of present track continued .

616

lxxvi

INDEX .

3006

District of Columbia--Continued.

Page.

sealer of weights and measures, title

changed to superintendent of

weights, measures, and markets..... 874

statues, fountains, and monuments in

public streets, parks, etc., to be submitted to Commission of Fine Arts. 371 street railways, Baltimore and Washington

Transit Company, time extended for

completion

894

City and Suburban Railway to extend

tracks, etc...

371

to extend underground system on

North Capitol Street..

231

time extended for building Washington,

Spa Springs and Gretta Railroad ... 229

titles for workhouse and reformatory sites

to be in United States; condemnation

authorized..

122

warehouse receipts, issue, negotiation,

etc...

301

Washington Market Company, may lay

switch, etc., into Square No. 328 ... 238

workhouse and reformatory inmates to be

released in...

464

District ofColumbia, Code Amendment,

Sec. 177, costs, etc.; bond not required of

United States or District on appeals,

etc ..

464

District ofColumbia, Commissioners ofthe,

appropriation for salaries....

374, 966

authorized to exchange typewriters, add-

ing machines, and pianos for new

ones ....

382

to issue and sell building regulations,

etc.; proceeds.....

208

municipal regulations by.

1299

may accept gift for branch library, Takoma

Park....

290

may dispose of land acquired for elimi-

nating grade crossings, but not

needed for street purposes...

383

may make minor changes in widths of

.streets...

387

street cleaning, etc., may be done under

their direction, instead of by con-

tract .....

980

to investigate, etc., for high-pressure fire

service in businesssection...

992

Washington Asylum and Jail transferred to

control, etc., of.....

1003

duties concerning...

1003

Districts, Judicial,

division of the States into......

1105-1130

Ditches, cooperation with water users under recla-

mation projects for, to carry water

for irrigation...

926

Divi-Divi,

on free list..

75

Dixie National Forest, Utah and Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 426, 1248

Document Room, House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, etc.....

476, 1179

for Joel Grayson..

477, 1179

Document Room , Senate,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

etc ....

469, 1171

Documentary Stamps, Internal Revenue,

deficiency appropriation for refunding, on

export manifests...

219, 809

time extended for refund of, on bills of

exchange for foreign exports . 120, 779, 1291

Documents, Congressional,

reserved sets of, discontinued ....

868

Documents ofthe Sixtieth Congress,

Page.

distribution to retiring members, repealed. 183

Documents, Public,

on free list, issued by foreign governments. 74

river and harbor reports and surveys to be

printed as, Sixty-first Congress ..... 184

Documents, Superintendent of,

appropriation for salaries and expenses,

office of..

790, 1448

control of Public Printer continued .... 770

Dolliver, Jonathan P., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

of.

1314

Dolls, Doll Heads, etc.,

duty on, not specially provided for........ 66

Dolores, Colo.,

granted lands for public park............. 461 Domestic Alcohol,

drawback allowed of internal-revenue tax

paid on, used in preparations ex-

ported ...

90

Domestic Animals,

census inquiries as to, not on farms and

ranges .

4,227

schedules of cattle, etc. , slaughtered for

food, and all hides produced ..

228

Domestic Articles, Reimported,

duty equal to internal-revenue tax to be

paid on...

90

proof of identity..

91

Dominican Republic,

appropriation for minister resident and con-

sul general...

337

for minister..

1027

for secretary of legation.......

337, 1028

Dominoes,

duty on ivory, bone, etc.

66

Dona Ana County, N. Mex.,

homestead patents allowed settlers excluded from Refugio Colony grant... 896

mineral, etc., lands excluded ...

896

existing subdivision lines recognized .... 896

expenses, etc ..

896

Donaldson, John,

deficiency appropriation for burial ex-

penses, etc ..

781

Donnelley, Florence A.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 805, 1318

Doorkeeper, House of Representatives,

appropriation for, assistant, messengers,

etc..

476, 1178

Dothan, Ala.,

appropriation for public building...

704

terms of court at...

1106

Double Creek, N. J.;

appropriation for improvement of; mainte-

nance by Union...

637

Doublets, duty on..
Douglas, Ariz.,
appropriation for public building.. acquiring site for public building at, au-
thorized .. authorized to issue bonds for waterworks.

68
1370
688 290

Douglas, Wyo.,

construction of public building at, authorized
Dowagiac, Mich.,
appropriation for public building.. acquiring site for public building at, · au-
thorized .....

684 1370
690

Downs,

duty on crude, not specially provided for 66

quilts, etc..

66

Dragon's Blood,

on free list...

75

INDEX.

lxxvii

Drainage Investigations,

Page.

appropriation for expenses of........... 439, 1263

Drapeau, Louis C.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 803, 1315

Draughts,

duty on ivory, bone, etc ......

66

Drawbacks,

allowed on imported coal, etc., used by

American ships in foreign, etc.,

trade.....

65

allowed on imported materials used in manufacture of articles exported .... 90

articles partly of domestic materials.. 90

under existing laws, continued at new .

rates..

90

identification; payment.

90

domestic alcohol paying internal-

revenue tax....

90

restrictions and regulations..

90

materials for ships built for foreign ac-

count...

90

salt used in curing meats.

39

not allowed, of additiona Iduty imposed for

undervaluation..

96

Drawbacks, Philippine Islands,

provisions for....

176

Drawbars, Railway,

change of standard height of, authorized.. 299

noncompliance unlawful...

299

use of chains instead of, allowed on cars for

repairs with live stock or perishable

freight.....

299

Drawers,

duty on cotton, etc......................

48

Drawing Knives,

duty on.

27

Drawings,

duty on pen and ink, not specially pro-

vided for....

70

on free list, for temporary exhibition, etc.,

not for sale; conditions..

81

original in existence more than twenty

years..

811

Drayton, N. Dak., may bridge Red River of the North...... 894

Dredging Plants,

appropriation for purchase, etc., for use on

Arkansas River, Ark.....

651

Cape Fear River, N. C............

641

Dress Facings, Bias,

duty on, cotton pile fabrics........

47

Dress Goods,

duty on, woolen, women's and children's,

cotton, etc., warp...

54

not specially provided for..

54

Dress Steels,

duty on.

24

"Dressed Line," Flax,

-duty on..

49

Drew County, Ark.,

may bridge Bayou Bartholomew.......

179

Drills,

duty on agricultural; admitted free from

country not imposing duty.....

71

Drought-Resistant Crops,

appropriation for breeding, etc.. ..... 422, 1243

Druggets,

duty on.

55

Drugs,

duty on, natural barks, berries, etc ....

13

alcohol excluded ............

13

on free list, crude, not edible, barks, beans,

etc., not specially provided for..

75

to prevent conception or produce abortion

forbidden entry; seizure, etc......... . 86

wholesale, for medicinal purposes, ex-

cepted......

86

Drugs, Adulterated, etc., ·

Page.

appropriation for expenses, preventing

sale, etc., of.....

432, 1255

Drums, Iron or Steel, for Acids,

on free list, returned from abroad...

72

Dry-Land Farming,

appropriation for methods of crop produc-

tion under....

422, 1243

for utilizing lands in arid regions for . 422, 1243

Dublin, Ga.,

appropriation for public building..

1370

limit of cost increased, public building. 677

Dubois, Pa.,

appropriation for public building................... 1370

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

691

Dubuque, Iowa,

terms of court at..

1111

Duchesne River, Utah,

appropriation for constructing bridge across,

at Theodore...

285

reimbursement from proceeds of Uin-

tah Reservation lands..

285

forconstructingbridgeacross,atTheodore. 1074

deficiency appropriation for bridge across,

at Myton, Utah ....

124

Duck Island, Conn.,

appropriation for harbor of refuge; con-

tracts..

633, 934

Dula,John W.,

payment for services..

229

acts as commissioner North Carolina west-

ern judicial district, legalized................... 229

Duluth, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657

for public building..

1370

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

690

terms of court at.

1116

Dunham, Dio W.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1319 Dunkirk, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

"City to provide terminal facilities.. 634

for public building .

1370

. acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

691

Dunns Creek, Fla.,

post lantern lights authorized in...................... 534

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Duquoin, Ill.,

appropriation for public building...

1370

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

Durango, Colo. , appropriation for public building......... 1370

acquiring site for public building at, au- .

thorized..

689

granted lands for public park.

461

Durango National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for m"a"intenance, etc. , of.... 1248 "During the Session,'

to mean 117 days...

478

to mean 210 days..

1180

Dust,

on free list, bone.....

73

diamond....

75

Dutch Metal,

duty on leaf.

29

on free list, clippings from......

74

2345 223 55

Duties, Countervailing,

on imports from countries paying export bounties on same, etc..

85

Duties, Customs (see also Tariff of 1909),

appeals allowed only to Court of Customs

Appeals from decisions of Board of

General Appraisers, as.to .....

1145

lxxviii

INDEX .

Duties on Imports,

Page.

certified checks receivable in payment of;

conditions ....

965

Philippine Tariff of 1909 .

130

Duwamish River, Wash.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 676

D'Wamish Indians, etc., Wash. ,

appropriation for support, etc........ 286, 1074

Dyeing,

duty on woods, etc. , used for, not specially

provided for....

13

on free list, articles in crude state used in,

not specially provided for.....

72

crude woods, expresslyused for, not spe-

cially provided for..

75

Dyer, Robert W.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318

1371

Dyersburg, Tenn., appropriation for public building ........ 1370
Dyes,
duty on coal-tar...
on free list, alizarin or anthacin....

Dyewoods, duty on extracts and decoctions of, not

specially provided for..

13

on free list, crude, not specially provided

for..

75

Dymers Creek, Va., appropriation for improvement of........ 640

E.

"E. G. Crosby," Steamer,

name of "Naomi " may be changed to..... 326

Eagle Pass, Tex.,

appropriation for public building..

1370

limit of cost increased, public building.. 679

Eagle Point, N. J.,

range lights authorized at or near..

535

Earthenware,

duty on common, not decorated..

18

common yellow, glazed ..

18

decorated, etc ..

18

not decorated, etc ..

18

Rockingham..

18

Earthquake in Costa Rica, distribution of tents, etc., to sufferers from. 367

Earthquake, Italian,

thanks to Italy for engravings presented for

aid to sufferers by..

875

0000000

Earths,

duty on fuller's..

18

ochery, sienna, and umber...

15

unwrought, not specially provided for.. 18

wrought, not specially provided for...

18

Earths, Earthenware, and Glassware,

Schedule B, Tariff of 1909 ..

17

Earthy Substances,

duty on articles of, not specially provided

for.....

18

East Boothbay, Me.,. appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

East Chester Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 635, 935

East Chicago, Ind., bridge authorized across Grand Calumet

River at.

178

East Fork of Coquille River, Oreg., preliminary examination of, to be made... 674
East Haven River, Conn., preliminary examination of, to be made... 669

East Orange, N. J.,

appropriation for public building..

1370

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

690

East Pearl River, Miss.,
appropriation for improvement of.. East Pittsburg, Pa.,
appropriation for public building.. acquiring site and erecting public building
at, authorized

Page 647
1370 687

East River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement_of; re-

moving obstructions North Brother

and South Brother Islands........ 635, 935

for lighting..

754

East Saint Louis, Ill.,

terms of court at..

1110

Eastern Dispensary, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients.....

408, 999

deficiency appropriation for.. ....... 786, 1298

Easton, Pa.,

appropriation for public building...... 704, 1370

Eastport, Idaho,

made a subport of entry...

467

privileges ofimmediate transportation..... · 467

Eau Claire, Wis.,

terms of court at.....

1130

Ebony,

duty on, sawed. boards, etc ......

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only...

81

Ecgonine, etc.,

duty on..

14

Echo Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 634

Ecuador,

appropriation for minister to.............. 337, 1027

for secretary of legation...

337, 1028

gift of United States building at Quito Ex-

position to...

203

Eddington, David,

homestead entry in Utah authorized to .... 1349

coal reserved to Government......

1349

Edenton Bay, N. C., preliminary examination of, to be made...
Edgemoor Lighthouse Depot, Del. , appropriation for improvements....... improvements authorized at.

674 ·
1431 535

Edgewater Connecting Railway Company,

time extended for bridging Kansas River,

Kansas City, Kans., by..

191

Edgings,

duty on cotton, flax, etc....

50

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

Gothrough machine .......

50

silk..

60

woolen ...

54

Ediz Hook, Wash.,

wharf, etc., at, to be transferred from Navy

to Revenue-Cutter Service ...

712

Edmonds Harbor, Wash.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 676

Education Bureau, Interior Department,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

etc.

515, 1217

specialist in higher education, etc....... 1217

for books, etc..

515, 1218

for collecting statistics, etc......................... 515, 1218

deficiency appropriation for collecting

statistics....

222

for distributing documents..

1323

Education, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, clerks, etc ..

515, 1218

for education of Alaska natives under

supervision of........

744, 1420

for publication of annual report of... 768, 1446 Educational Associations,

exempt from corporation tax, if not for

profit.....

113

INDEX .

lxxix

Educational Institutions, etc.,

Page.

on free list, apparatus, etc., for...

78

books, etc., for ; limit...

74

Educational Objects ofArt,

on free list, produced more than 100 years

before importation...................

82

Edwards, James F., deficiency appropriatoin for services...... 802

Edwards, Sarah,

appraisement of damages to property of,

from change of grade for Union Sta-

tion, D. C.......

336

Edwardsville, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1370

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

685

Eel Grass,

duty on manufactures of.............

17

Eels,

duty on..

37

Effects ofPassengers, Personal,

admitted without certified invoice......

92

Egg Plant Seed,

duty on..

37

Eggs,

duty on, albumen

36

dried...

36

not specially provided for..

36

yolk of...

36

importation prohibited of game birds',

etc.; exception.......

75

allowed for propagation ; regulations.

75

on free list, birds'.

75

fish .

75

insects'.

75

silkworm ..

79

Eight Hour Law,

contracts for new vessels of the Navy to

comply with ...

628, 1287

Eighteenth Street NW., D. C.,

condemning lands for extending..

978

appropriation for expenses, etc..

979

Eighth Judicial Circuit, appropriation for messenger, etc ..

529, 1233

States included in...

1131

four circuit judges authorized for..

1131

New Mexico district assigned to ..

567

Eightmile River, Conn., appropriation for improvement of....... 633
El Oro, Tex., bridge authorized across Rio Grande from

Presidio del Norte, Mexico, to...... 853 El Paso, Tex.,

appropriation for public building.

1371

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

692

terms of court at.......

1127

El Reno, Okla.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

687

sale of Cheyenne and Arapahoe agencyand

school lands, etc., at, authorized

for Masonic orphanage..

190

Elberton, Ga.,

construction of public building author-

ized at...

681

Eldorado National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Elections ofRepresentatives,

provisions for giving publicity to contri-

butions for...

822

Electric Cars, Postal Service, appropriation for mail transportation by. 364, 1336 substitution ofwagon service authorized.364, 1337

32 528888 PPPPP

Electric Currents,

Page.

appropriation for investigating destructive

effects on buildings, etc., of.....528, 1232

Electric Light and Power Service, Executive

Departments, etc., D. C.,

direct contracts to be made for...

531

Electric Light Poles,

duty on..

33

Electric Plants, Army,

appropriation for seacoast fortifications.... 1341

for gun and mortar batteries, material,

etc..

596, 1341

for installation of, Philippine Islands. 598,1343

sale of surplus power permitted; use of pro-

ceeds....

253, 1018

Electric Street Railways,

not carrying freight, exempt from require-

ments for through routes, etc., in

interstate commerce....

552

Electric Wires,

duty on, composed of metal, rubber, etc... 24

Electrical Department, D. C., appropriation for salaries .. assistant engineer; duties.

.390,981 390, 981

for contingent expenses...

390, 982

for placing wires underground .

390,982

for extending police-patrol system.... 390, 982

for lighting expenses, rates .. : .

391, 982

settlementforarc-lighting contractwith

Potomac Electric Power Company.. 982

for electric arc lights ..

391

for additional fire-alarm boxes...

391

deficiency appropriation for supplies...

784

schedules of rates for electric, gas, etc.,

lighting.

1009

Electrical Units, International Committee on,

appropriation for expenses ofdelegates.. 528, 1232

Electrodes, Carbon,

duty on.

19

Electrotype Plates,

duty on....

28

Elevator Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce....!.

545

Elimination ofGrade Crossings, D. C., appropriation for expenses, Union Railroad

Station ..

383

land for widening First street transferred

to commissioners

383

disposal permitted of land acquired for, not needed for street purposes....: . 383

Eliza Island, Bellingham Bay, Wash.,

light and fog signal station authorized at.. 537

Elizabeth City, N. C.,

terms of court at.

1120

Elizabeth River, Ni C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 674

Elizabeth River, N. J.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Elizabeth River, Va.,

preliminary examination to be made of

westerd branch of..

954

Elk,

appropriation for feeding, protecting and

removal of, in Wyoming.....

1258

Elk River, Md,,,'.

appropriation for improvement of.................

639

for lighting!..

754

preliminary examination to be made of... 953

Elkins, Stephen B., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

of.....

1314

Elkins, W. Va. ,

construction of public building author-

ized at..

683

lxxx

INDEX.

Elks, Benevolent and Protective Order of,

Page.

loan of tents, etc., for reunion at Detroit,

Mich ..

885

Ellensburg, Wash.,

appropriation for public building.

1371

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized .

692

made port of delivery .

579

Elliott, James D.,

deficiency appropriation for services..

800

Ellis Island Immigration Station, N. Y.,

appropriation for new crematory..

764

for reconstructing ferry rack.

764

for new ice plant .

1441

for repairs, etc..

1441.

for sea wall, etc ..

1441

deficiency appropriation for equipping

contagious hospital...

126

for rent of wharf, and construction of

building, adjacent to Barge Office.. 216

for remodeling, etc., main building..

216

for passenger elevator..

216

for freight elevator.

216

for hot water, and oiling systems..

216

for dredging channels to landings, etc.. 801

Ellsworth, Me.,

appropriation for public building ....

1371

Elmira, N. Y. ,

terms of court at,

1120

Elwood, Ind.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

limit of cost increased, public building... 677

Elyria, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiringsite for public building at, author-

ized.......

691

Embassies, appropriation for clerks at..

338, 1029

for interpreters to..

338, 1029

deficiency appropriation for clerks at... 774

purchase of buildings for, authorized ..

917

Embossed Paper, etc.,

duty on, not lithographed, not specially

provided for......

63

Embroideries, duty on, artificial silk orimitation horsehair 60

beads or spangles.....

64

cotton, flax, etc...

50

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

Gothrough machine.

50

silk .

60

tinsel wire, etc.

30

woolen ..

54

Embroidery Cotton,

duty on..

42

Embroidery Machines,

duty on.

32

imported prior to January 1, 1911 , admitted

free..

32

Emergencies, Diplomatic and Consular Service,

appropriation for unforeseen..

341, 1031

Emergency Currency,

deficiency appropriation for employees on. 775

Emergency Fund, D. C.,

appropriation for, purchases..

..... 404, 996

Emergency Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent patients 408, 999

Emery,

duty on, grains, manufactured, etc

66

wheels, files, etc.

66

on free list, ore.......

.75

Emigrants, Alien Assisted,

admission excluded ..

264

exception, in transit to contiguous

country......

264

23 1 18 88282*8

Emperor of Germany, appropriation for replica of von Steuben
statue to be presented to...
Employees, Common Carrier, term construed in interstate commerce ....

Page. 886 546

Employees, Government, appropriation for medical examination of,

receiving pay for injuries..... 526, 1228

punishment for bribery, etc., of, in cus-

toms matters ...

103

receiving bribes, etc., in customs cases.. 103

law granting compensation for injuries to,

etc., applicable to Isthmian Canal .. 1452

punishment for falsifying accounts, rec-

ords, etc...

1355

making false reports of public moneys or

securities...

1356

Employees, Railway,

appropriation for arbitrating differences

of....

719, 1397

Employers' Liability Act, actions to be brought in two years..

· 291

jurisdiction of circuit courts..

291

concurrent with State court.

291

.no removal from State to United States

court..

291

survival to heirs ..

291

injuries to railroad employees by defective cars hauled for repairs, not to affect.
Employer's Liability and Workman's Com-
pensation, commission to investigate, authorized ;
composition, recommendations, etc. appropriation for... deficiency appropriation for expenses... Enamel, duty on fusible........ used for ceramic articles.

299
884 884 1315
21 15

on freelist, white glass, for watch and clock

dials

76

Enamel Paints,

duty on, made with varnish..

15

Enameled Leather,

duty on .

68

Encampments and Maneuvers, Organized

Militia,

appropriation for expenses of, with Regular

Army.

251, 1044

reimbursement to Frank M. Rum-

bold...

1044

deficiency appropriation for expenses, with

Regulars..

809, 1321

Encampments, Army Joint,

allotments to States, etc., available for ex-

penses of militia 1908...

329

participation of organized militia in ; ex-

penses, etc ...

329

Enfleurage Grease,

on free list.

77

Engineer Corps, Army (see also Engineer De-

partment, Army),

increase in number of officers...

957

to extend over five years. ...

957

filling of original vacancies..

957

on river and harbor duty, to be paidfrom amount for work on which employed 957
detail of assistant engineers in Depart-

ment.

957

vacancies in grade of second lieutenant to be filled from Military Academy

cadets ...

957

remaining, from civil life..

957

proportion of cadets to be assigned to... 957

eligibility for appointments from civil

life; selection, etc.

957

INDEX .

Lxxxi

I 28R8

EngineerDepartment, Army,

Page.

appropriation for pay of enlisted " men;

longevity..

246, 1039

for pay of officers; longevity.

247,1041

for expenses of depots..

259, 1055

for instruments for officers...

259,1055

for maintenance of school, Washington,

D. C....

259, 1055

for equipment of troops.. for services of surveyors, etc..

260, 1056 260, 1056

forcontingencies, Philippine Islands. 260, 1056

payment of pressing obligations from

other available balances...

1056

for expenses of fortifications under.. 596, 1343

for river and harbor improvements.. 630, 933

contract work..

728, 1405

for buildings and grounds, D. C...... 725, 1402

for publication of maps.

730, 1406

for survey, etc. , of Great Lakes...... 730, 1406

board of, officers to examine and report on

reclamation projects.....

835

service in Lighthouse Bureau....

539

Engineer Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc...

503, 1205

draftsmen, etc., to be paid fromappro-

priations for rivers and harbors,

etc..

503, 1205

authority for additional assistants on

river and harbor work repealed ..... 503

assistant engineers in, to be detailed for

river and harbor duty.......

957

Engineer School, D. C.,

appropriation for equipment and mainte-

nance

259,1055

deficiency appropriation for..

1321

Engineering Experiment Station, Naval

Academy, appropriation for expenses..

622, 1281

unexpended balance for equipment

reappropriated...

622

for dredging basin and coal dock..

622

Engineers, Chiefof, to approve proposed obstructions of navi-

gable waters within the city of New

York....

866

Engineer's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries.

377,970

for motor vehicle for inspection work.. 381

for reconstructing sand, etc., wharf..

975

Engines,

duty on steam....

32

Engines, Locomotive (see Locomotive Engine Boilers, Safe).

England(see Great Britain).

Engraved Steel Plates,

duty on.

28

Engravers' Diamonds,

on free list, not set..

75

EngravinDgepaanrtdmPernit,nting Bureau, Treasury

appropriationfor Director, assistant, etc. 491, 1193

for clerks, watchman, etc; restriction . 491, 1193

for salaries..

712, 1389

for wages.. for materials, etc...........

712, 1389 712, 1389

use of proceeds from work..

713, 1389

for custody ofdies, rolls, and plates... 714, 1391 for site and construction of new build-

ing..

1383

plans, etc., authorized for vaults, etc.. 1383

deficiency appropriation for salaries .... 205, 1293

for wages...

206, 1293

for materials..

206

refund to Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Expo-

sition......

206

88740°-VOL36, PT 1-11-99

Engraving and Printing Bureau, Treasury De- Page. partment-Continued.

deficiency appropriation for employees

detailed to office of Treasurer..

776

closing part of D Street SW. , for new

building..

707

payments to employees on emergency

currency, legalized ...

204

plans, etc., for mechanical, etc., equip-

ment of new building for...

121

proceeds of work by, to be credited to ap-

propriation for...

121

Engravings,

duty on, not specially provided for...

64

on free list, forthe United States, orLibrary

of Congress...

73

for temporary exhibition, etc., not for

sale; conditions...

81

in existence more than twenty years..

81

meaning of term under Tariff Act.

82

thanks to Italy for gift to Library of Con-

gCroelslsectoifo, nf..r.o.m. Royal Copperplate 875

Enid, Okla.,

appropriation for public building.............. 704, 1371

terms of court at...

1122

Enlarged Homesteads,

deficiency appropriation for State maps

showing designation...

797

provisions for, extended to Idaho...

531

Enlarging Capitol Grounds, D. C.,

appropriation for.

738, 1414

acquirement ofsquaresto Union Station for. 738

construction of avenue from Peace Monu-

ment.

738

authority of Vice President, Speaker, and

Superintendent of Capitol, etc., to

purchase, etc....

738

amount authorized annually..

738

condemnation proceedings if offers not

satisfactory.

738

appropriation for first fiscal year..

738

Enlisted Men, Army,

appropriation for pay; longevity..... 245, 1039

for engineer battalion; longevity .... 246, 1039

for Ordnance Department; longevity 246, 1039

for quartermaster sergeants; longevity 246, 1039

for post commissary sergeants; lon-

gevity.

246, 1039

for Signal Corps; longevity.

246, 1040

for Hospital Corps; longevity. service school detachment..

246, 1040 1040

for pay of retired..

248, 1042

for travel allowance on discharge.... 249,1043

for undrawn clothing..

249,1043

for interest on deposits..

249,1043

for extra-duty pay, artillery and ord-

nance service, seacoast fortifica-

tions.....

249,1043

forswitchboardoperators,interior posts 250, 1043

·for extra-duty pay, Alaska telegraph

system....

250, 1043

for 20 per cent increase beyond United

States....

250, 1043

for additional pay, first reenlistment. 250, 1043

forsix months'pay of,dying in-service 250, 1043

for disposition of remains of...

723, 1400

deficiency appropriation for pay.

1300

additional able

pfoarybefnoer,fidcyiiarnigesi.n.

service

avail-

123

detachment for remount depots...

1049

horseshoer and farrier for each troop of .

cavalry....

245

horseshoer for each battery of light artil-

lery......

245

lxxxii

INDEX .

110I 7020N80

Enlisted Men, Marine Corps,

Page.

appropriation for transporting remains of,

dying abroad..

619, 1278

for pay of; longevity . for retired..

624, 1284 625, 1284

Enlisted Men, Navy,

appropriation for pay.

605, 1265

for transporting remains of, dying

abroad...

619, 1278

complete schedule ofall pay and allowances

to be sent to Congress ..

606

profit allowed on sales of ships ' stores to be

expended for amusement, etc.,

of ..

619

Ennis, Tex.,

· appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

688

Ensley, Ala.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

Entomology Bureau, Department of Agricul-

ture, appropriation for salaries......

433, 1256

for general expenses; investigations.. 433, 1256

insects affecting southern field crops,

etc....

433

insects affecting health of man and

animals..

433, 1257

for preventing spread of moths................... 433, 1257

Enumerators, Census,

appointment and duties..

5

interpreters to assist, allowed .

6

compensation....

6

payment for services of deceased .

7

Envelopes,

duty on, paper

63

parchment paper, etc..

62

Envelopes, Postal Official and Registry, appropriation for. for expenses, distributing..

365, 1338 365, 1338

Envelopes, Stamped, appropriation for manufacture...

364, 1337

use prohibited for printing address,

etc., on....

364

printing permitted .

365

existing contracts not affected ..

365

for distribution........

365, 1337

Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Pleni-

potentiary,

appropriation for...

337, 1027

Epidemics,

appropriation for prevention of........ 717, 1394

Epileptics, Alien,

excluded admission.....

263

Epsom Salts,

duty on..

14

Equipage, Army Camp and Garrison, appropriation for..

257, 1052

deficiency appropriation for.................................. 220, 1321 Equipment of Vessels,
materials for, in foreign trade admitted

free of duty; regulations.....

88

Equipments, Army Infantry, Cavalry, and

Artillery Ordnance,

appropriation for.. sales to Cuba authorized.

261, 1057 261

Equity Proceedings, United States Courts,

district courts always open for motions,

etc., in......

1087

Erasers,

duty on......

26

Ergol,

on free list........

75

Erie, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 637, 936

terms of court at..

1123

Erie Railroad Company,

Page.

may construct canal from Berrys Creek to

Hackensack River, N. J.........

1082

Ernst, E. R., deficiency appropriation for services.... 1318
Errors in CustomsEntries, correction allowed within one year........ 103

Escambia Bay, Fla.,

bridge authorized across, between Pen-

sacola and River Junction.......

233

Escambia River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 646, 942 preliminary examination of, to be made... 669 Essences,

duty on fruit...

13

on free list, primal flower..

77

Essential Oils,

duty on, not specially provided for........ 12

"Essex," U.S. S.;

appropriation for repairs...

621

Establishments, Government,

appropriation for inquiries into methods of

transacting public business in... 703, 1363

Estates of Citizens Dying Abroad, duties of Auditor for State, etc., Depart-

ments over, transmitted by consuls . 1083

Esters, Cellulose,

duty on compounds of........

13

Estey, W. H.,

deficiency appropriation for services ... 805, 1319 Estherville-Minim Creek Canal, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 938, 643

Estimates, Book of, proceeds of sales of old materials, etc., to

be separately communicated to

Congress, and not in...

773

Estopinal, Honorable Albert,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses......

1317

Etchings,

duty on, not specially provided for....... 64

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc.; limit..

74

for the United States or Library of

Congress..

73

in existence more than twenty years..

printed more than twenty years... meaning of term under Tariff Act.. Ethers,

duty on, ethyl chloride..

13

fruit..

13

not specially provided for.

13

spirits of nitrous..

13

sulphuric....

13

Ethnology, American,

appropriation for continuing researches

in..

718, 1395

for printing and binding for.

768, 1447

Ethyl Chloride,

duty on....

13

Eufaula, Ala.,

appropriation for public building ....... 1371

Eureka, Cal.,

appropriation for public building...

704

for mprovement of channel in front of,

Humboldt Bay...

949

Eureka Springs, Ark.,

appropriation for public building.

1371

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

684

Evans, John W.,

deficiency appropriation for services.... 127,804

Eranston, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized.....

679

INDEX .

Lxxxiii

8888

Evanston, Wyo., terms of court at.

Page. Executive Office (see also Executive Mansion, Page.

1130

D. C.),

Evansville, Ind., terms ofcourt at...
Everett, Wash.,

appropriation for Secretary of the Presi-

1110

dent, executive clerk, clerks, etc. 482, 1184

payment of reorganized force....

1185

appropriation for public building.......... 1371

temporary details of employees from

Evergreen Seedlings Beeds, on free list, not specially provided for..... 79
Evergreen Shrubs and Vines, duty on stocks, cuttings, and seedlings... *37
Evers, George F., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318
Evidence, United States Courts,

executive departments allowed.. 482, 1185

· for contingent expenses... for printing and binding for..

482, 1185 769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for additions to

building..

119

part of Patent Office printing allotment,

1911, made available for........

1448

exclusion ofpleadings, discoveries, etc.; as,

Executive Office, D. C.,

in criminal proceedings, etc., re-

pealed..

352

Ewing, N. J.,

·

bridge authorized across Delaware River,

appropriation for Commissioners, secre

tary, clerks, etc..........

374, 966

for divisions in office....

374, 966

for care of District Building........... 375, 967

Lower Makefield , Pa., to................

959 Exeter River, N. H.,

Ewing, Thomas J., and others,

appropriation for improvement of.......... 933 .

bridge authorized across Tug Fork, Big

Exhibitions (see also Expositions),

Sandy River, at Warfield, Ky..... 230 articles for Merchants and Manufacturers

Eaxmining Surgeonsfor Pensions, appropriation for fees, etc.....
Excelsior Springs, Mo.,

843; 1085

Exchange, admitted in bond free of

duty..

....... 1357

duty on future withdrawals..

1358

appropriation for public building...

1371 Expediting Antitrust and Interstate Commerce

acquiringsite and erecting public building

Cases,

at, authorized ..

686 provisions for; assignment ofjudges....... 854

Excise Board, D. C., appropriation for salaries.....
Excise Tax, Special,

Explosions in Mines,

376, 968 appropriation for investigating causes of,

etc..

1418

levied on net incomes ofcorporations..... Excrescences,

112 Explosive Articles, disposal of, not affected by Tariff Act............. 101

duty on, drugs.

13 Explosive Substances,

on free list, crude vegetable, not specially

duty on mining, artillery, etc..·...

66

provided for..

75 Export Bounty,

ExecutiveDepartments, etc.,,

countervailing duty on imports from

appropriation for expert inquiry into busi-

country paying, on the same.....

85

ness methods, etc., of..

703, 1363 minimum tariff on imports from countries

for care, etc., ofgrounds..

726, 1403

paying no.......

82

census information to be furnished by...

10

proclamation announcing, to be issued.. 82

details not allowed to Civil Service Com-

Export Cattle,

mission from..

483, 1185 appropriation for enforcing humane treat-

officers detailed to investigate frauds, may

ment of..

420, 1239

administer oaths....

..898 Export Duties, Philippine Islands,

proceedings in Court of Claims in matters

articles subject to...

173

transmitted by.....

1137 Export Duty, or Prohibition,

suppliesfor, to beadvertisedand contracted

minimum tariff on imports from countries

for by Secretary of the Treasury... 581

not imposing, on shipments to

28288

general supply committee, functions,

United States..

etc..

531 proclamation announcing, to be issued..

temporary details allowed to White House

Export Manifests,

from....

482, 1185 deficiency appropriation for refund of

Executive Expenses, appropriations for..

482, 1184

Executive Mansion, D. C. (see also Executive

stamps on....

219,809

time extended for presenting claims for

stamps on..

120, 779, 1291 .

Office). appropriation for improvement and care of

Exposition, Alaska- Yukon-Pacific, · deficiency appropriation for additional

grounds south of, etc....

725, 1403

electrical equipment......

130

for maintenance, etc., of grounds..... 725, 1403 Exposition, Panama Canal (see Panama-

for changingroads, grounds of..

726

Pacific International Exposition).

for removal of stable; care of horses, etc. 1403 Expositions,

for care, repair, etc...

726, 1404 appropriation for participating in Interna-

for fuel...

727, 1404

tional Art and History, at Rome,

for greenhouses...

727, 1404

for travel expenses of President...... 727, 1404

for lighting...

727, 1404

Italy...

345

for participating in International In-

dustry and Labor, at Turin, Italy.. 345

deficiency appropriation for additions to

office building..

119

for traveling expenses of President.

119

deficiency appropriation for participation

in International Agricultural, Bue-

nos Aires.....

203

property in, to be in custody of employee

to be designated by President; ap-

proval ofbond....

773

annual inventory required, contents.. 774

for participation in International Fine

Arts, Buenos Aires...

203

for participation in Fine and Applied Arts, Santiago..... 203

approval; deposit in Office of Public

Express Companies,

Buildings and Grounds.......

774 held to be common carriers......

545

lxxxiv

INDEX .

Expressage, Postal Service,

Page.

appropriation for paying, on postal cards,

etc...

362

supplies to be sent by, preceding

weighing periods....

362

Expressed Oils,

duty on, not specially provided 'for ....... 12 Extracts,

duty on, of barks for dyeing and tanning,

not specially provided for..

13

dyewoods..

13

hemlock bark.

14

hop...

36

indigo.

14

licorice ..

14

malt....

41

meat, not specially provided for .

38

Persian berries..

13

quebracho...

13

sumac .

14

vegetable origin for dyeing, etc., not

containing alcohol and not me-

dicinal....

14

woods otherthan dyewoods, not specially

provided for....

14

wool...

53

on free list, saffron....

79

Extradition,

appropriation for bringing home criminals

from abroad......

340, 1031

Eyeglasses,

duty on, glass and frame...

20

on free list, glass plates or disks, rough cut,

for......

76

F.

Fabrics,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair..

60

asbestos woven..

69

bead or spangles.

64

cotton..

42

pile.

47

cotton, flax, etc. , embroidered, etc..

50

flax, pile..

51

jute, plain single yarns.... knit woolen.. 5530

silk pile, not specially provided for.

57

silk, woven, in the piece.

57

tinsel wire, etc....

30

woven, of flax, hemp, or ramie, not spe-

cially provided for..

51

Facilities, etc., Transportation,

furnished by shippers to be paid for by

carriers...

553

Facing Slips, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for.....
Fairbanks, Alaska,

366, 1338

appropriation for hospital for temporary

"detention of insane persons..............

852

Fairhaven, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

632, 934

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

671

Fairport, Iowa,

appropriation for fisheries biological sta-

tion....

761

for fisheries biological station equip-

ment, etc.....

763, 1440

Fairport, Ohio, appropriation forimprovement of harbor. 653, 1406
Faith ofthe United States,

pledged to the payment of postal savings

deposits...

818

Fall River, Mass.

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

Falls City, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building......... 1371

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

690

Falsification ofAccounts, etc.,

punishment for, by Government employ-

ees ..

1355

Families, Common Carrier, term construed in interstate commerce.... 547

3225

Fans,

duty on.

67

on free list, common palm-leaf, plain..

75

Far Eastern Affairs, Department ofState,

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of division of; employees ..

119

Fargo and MoorheadStreet Railway Company,

may bridge Red River of the North at

Fargo, N. Dak.............

907

Fargo, N. Dak.,

bridge authorized across Red River of the

North, at........

907

terms of court at. ....

1121

Faribault, Minn.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

Farley, T. A., deficiency appropriation for services................ 127
Farm Products, appropriation for investigating cost of.... 436
Farmers,

may sell leaf tobacco to manufacturers without being considered dealers.. 110

no restrictions on, selling their own leaf

tobacco....

111

Farmers' Bulletin, No. 391,

printingordered of extra copies of, as House

document; distribution...

880

Farmers' Bulletins,

appropriation for printing and binding;

delivery...

769, 1447

Farmers' Institutes,

appropriation for reports, etc., on..... 438, 1262 Farms,

appropriation for encouraging, etc., im-

proved methods of management and

practice...

422, 1243

census inquiries relating to, and farm

products...

4

irrigation acreage added..

227

Farrar, Robert W.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 803, 1314 Farriers, Army,
designation and pay established for cavalry 245 Farriers' Knives,

duty on.

27

Fashion Magazines, etc.,

duty on lithographically printed, etc.... 63

Fats,

on free list, for soaps, etc.....

76

Fayette Bridge Company,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River at Brownsville, Pa., by.... 870, 909

Fayetteville, Tenn.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ........

688

Feather Dusters,

duty on .

65

Feather River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 662, 950

controlling débris and floods; condition,

amount required from State..

662

modification of project....

663

INDEX.

lxxxv

Feathers,

Page. Ferrotitanium,

Page.

duty on articles of, artificial flowers, etc.,

duty on..

30

not specially provided for...

66 Ferrotungsten,

artificial, for millinery ornaments...

66 duty on...

30

boas, boutonnieres, etc..

66 Ferrovanadium,

crude, not specially provided for..

66 duty on...

30

manufactures of...

66 Fertilizers, Potash, Nitrates, etc.,

Featherstitch Braids,

appropriation for investigating source of

duty on cotton, flax, etc..

50

supply of, within United States.... 1256

Federal Reporter,

Fiber, Tampico,

sets of, etc., to be procured and distributed

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory

to United States courts.........

1155

duty..

73

Feeble-Minded Aliens,

Fiber Ware,

excluded admission..

263 duty on indurated ....:

67

2 52102

Feeble-Minded White and Colored Children,

Fibers,

D. C.,

duty on dried..

13

appropriation for maintenance......... 409, 1000 on free list, crude dried, drugs, not specially

Fees, Customs,

provided for....

75

abolished, except provided for in Tariff

Act...

102

allowance in lieu of, for pay of customs

crude paper stock.

78

vegetable, not manufactured, not spe-

cially provided for...................

76

officers, etc...

.102 Fibrin,

Fees, United States Courts,

on free list...

75.

prepayment by poor persons not required on affidavit of poverty.....
Felonies (see Crimes and Misdemeanors).

Fidelity and Guaranty Company,
866 deficiency appropriation for, surety on bonds of deputy surveyors......................... 1308

Felons, Alien,

Field Artillery, Army,

convicted of offense involving moral turpi-

tude excluded admission.............

264

Felt,

appropriation for procuring, etc., material

for issue to Organized Militia..

1058

horseshoer for each battery; designation

duty on roofing....

61

and pay established...

245

on free list, adhesive, for sheathing vessels. 75 Field Batteries, Army,

Fells, Woolen,
duty on, not specially provided for...... Fence Posts, Wood,
on free list... Fence Rods,

appropriation for alterations to rapid-fire 597, 1342 54 Field Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

75

etc., of...

597, 1341

for ammunition for.......

597, 1341

duty on iron or steel wire... Fence Wire, Barbed,

24

for ammunition, etc., for practice..... 597, 1342

Field Instruction, Army,

duty on
Fences along International Boundary Lines, erection, permitted, to keep out diseased

24 participation of organized militia in; ex-

penses, etc..

329

Fifteenth Street NW., D. C.,

animals.. Fennel Seed,
on free list....
oil..

440 name of west side of, between I and K

Streets, changed to McPherson Place 325

79 Fifth Judicial Circuit,

77 States included in....

1131

Fenton, J. W., jr.,

three circuit judges authorized for............. 1131

deficiency appropriation for services....... 804 Figs,

Fenugreek Seed,

duty on....

38

on free list..

79 Filberts,

Fergus County, Mont.,

duty on...

38

appropriation forsurveying public landsin. 741 File blanks,

Fergus Falls, Minn.,

duty on..

27

terms of court at.....

1116 Files,

Fernandina, Fla.,

duty on...

27

appropriation for improvement ofwaterway

emery.

66

between Savannah, Ga., and........... 644, 941 Filing System, Interior Department,

for improvement of harbor..

644, 941 deficiency appropriation for completing,

for public building.

705

in General Land Office and Indian

terms of court at..

1108

Office.....

212

Ferries,

Filler Tobacco,

included with railroads in interstate com-

duty on....

35

merce regulations..... Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico, Los (see
National Railways of Mexico). Ferrochrome or Ferrochromium,
duty on.. Ferromanganese,
duty on.... Ferromolybdenum,
duty on..

887

545 Fillmore National Forest, Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Films, Moving Picture,

duty on, negative ..

70

30

positive..

70

Films, Photographic,

21 on free list, American, exposed abroad..

73

from moving-picture machines, damaged,

30

etc., American..

73

Ferrophosphorus,
duty on.. Ferrosilicon,

Filter Masse or Filter Stock,

30 duty on..

61

Filter Tubes,

duty on....

30 duty on..

19

lxxxvi

INDEX .

Filtering Paper, duty on...

Page. 62

Filtration-Aeration Process, Distilled Spirits,

basis of capacity of mash by..

590

period for filling tubs employing..

590

Finance Division, Post Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, etc .. 520, 1222

Finance Committee, Senate,

deficiency appropriation for extra services

to ..

127

Fine and Applied Arts, Exhibition of,

deficiency appropriation for participation

in, Santiago, Chile.....

203

Fine Arts, Commission of, appropriation for expenses.

728, 1405

officer in charge of buildings and

grounds, District of Columbia, to be

secretary, etc..

728

provision for establishing, etc...

371

Fine Arts, International Exposition of,

deficiency appropriation for participation

in, Buenos Aires....

203

Fines, etc. (see Crimes and Misdemeanors) .

Finns Point National Cemetery, N. J.,

appropriation for road from Harrisonville

to .

350

Fire-Brick, duty on, glazed, etc.. not glazed, etc.....
Fire-Control Instruments, Navy, appropriation for.....
Fire-Control Stations, Fortifications,
appropriation for construction, etc .. for range finders, etc ... for operating, seacoast defenses.

17 17
611, 1271
596, 1341 596, 1341 597, 1341

foroperating, etc., insular possessions. 598, 1343 for constructing, insular possessions............... 599
Fire Department, D. C.,

appropriation for chief engineer, deputy,

officers, etc..

400, 991

going out of District unless on leave,

forbidden...

992

for miscellaneous.......

401, 992

for contingent expenses..

401, 992

new house ...

401

addition, etc., to No. 20 engine house.. 992

new apparatus...

401, 992

estimate, etc., for high-press; re sys-

tem .

992

deficiency appropriation for salaries.... 1297

for forage.

785

Firearms,

duty on.:

27

Firecrackers,

duty on....

66

Firemen's Insurance Company, D. C.,

allowed to accept risks out of District..... 920

FireproofBuilding Materials, D. C., appropriation for testing..

383,975

Firewood,

on free list not specially provided for..... 81

Fireworks,

duty on, not specially provided for........ 66

First Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents of di-

visions, clerks, etc...

519, 1222

for division of salaries and allowances. 519, 1222

for division of appointments..

520, 1222

for division of city delivery.

520, 1222

for postal service, office of ..

357, 1329

for postmasters, assistants, clerks, etc. 357, 1329

for rent, light, and fuel ; leases; limit.. 360, 1332

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices ..

360, 1332

888

First Assistant Postmaster-General- Contd. Page.

appropriation for canceling machines;

rental contracts, etc....

... 360, 1332

for mechanical and labor-saving de-

vices....

361, 1333

for assistant superintendents, salary and

allowance division...

361

for city delivery......

361, 1333

for travel and miscellaneous expenses. 361 , 1333 First Judicial Circuit,

States included in..

1131

three circuit judges authorized for....... 1131 First Street NE., D. C.,
proceedings to condemn land for widening. 466 appropriation for expenses, etc........ 466
Fish,

SERREPR

duty on, fresh-water, not specially pro-

vided for...

37

bladders ...

14

glue .......

14

oils, not specially provided for..

14

packed in bottles, cans, etc.

37

prepared, etc.

37

roe.

37

skinned or boned .

37

sounds......

14

on free list, eggs of, except fish roe..

75

fresh water, caught by American citizens. 75

oil, of American fisheries.....

77

products of American fisheries ...

75

skins...

75

Fish Glue,

duty on .

14

Fish Hooks,

duty on..

28

Fish Paste or Sauce,

duty on .

36

Fish Sounds,

duty on .

14

on free list, crude, etc., not specially pro-

vided for.....

73

Fisheries, American, on free list, fish oil and other products of.. 77
Fisheries Arbitration, North Atlantic,

message and documents relating to, ordered

printed..

1456

Fisheries Bureau, Department ofCommerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputy,

clerks, etc...

758, 1435

designation of acting Commissioner... 1436

fordivision of fish culture, office force. 759, 1436

for station employees..

759, 1436

for employees at large . for distribution employees

761, 1438 761,1438

for inquiry division... for statistics division........................
for vessel service ..... for division of Alaska fisheries.

761, 1439 762, 1439
762, 1439 1439

for contingent expenses .

762, 1440

delegates to International Fisheries'

Congress......

762

for propagation...

762, 1440

for maintenance of vessels..

762, 1440

for inquiries..

762, 1440

for statistical inquiries.....

763, 1440

for salmon fisheries, Alaska...

763

for launch for fresh-water mussel station. 763

for biological station, Fairport, Iowa. 763, 1440

for Alaskan seal fisheries...

763

for protecting sponge fisheries .

1440

for upper Mississippi Valley fish-cultural

station ....

763, 1440

for Beaufort, biological station, N. C.... 1440

for station, Jefferson County, Ky .

1440

INDEX .

lxxxvii

Fisheries Bureau--Continued.

Page.

appropriation for station in Wyoming..

1440

for biological station on Gulf, Coast of

Florida....

1440

Five Civilized Tribes ofIndians, Okla.-Con. Page.

appropriation for clerk to sign tribal

deeds

511, 1214

for suits to set aside conveyances of

for station in South Carolina .

1441

for repairs to vessels....

1441

for Alaskan fisheries service expenses... 1441

allotted lands..

748, 1425

deficiency appropriation for administering

affairs of..

1309

deficiency appropriation for miscellane-

generalallotment provisions not applicable

ous...

224, 1324

to.

862

biological station on Gulf, Coast of Florida,

title to lands deeded to deceased Indians.. 862

authorized..

964 Fivemile River, Conn. ,

Fisheries, Commissioner of,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 633, 934

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .. 758, 1435 Flandreau, S. Dak.,

designation of acting, authorized ...

1436 appropriation for Indian school........ 283, 1071

Fisheries Convention, Canadian,

Flannels,

appropriation for commission, etc. ,

duty on woolen........

54

under...

344, 1033

Fisheries, North Atlantic,

appropriation for expenses, arbitration of

questions relating to...

765

message and papers, arbitration, ordered

printed, etc..

1456

Fishing Creek, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.

641

preliminary examination of, to be made... 674

Fishing Rods,

on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for.... 81

Fishing Rods and Reels,

duty on

28

Flaps,

duty on lithographically printed ..........

62

Flasks, etc.,

duty on, containing quicksilver ......

31

Flat Rails,

duty on punched, iron or steel.........

23

Flathead Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

277, 1066

Flathead Indian Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for constructing irrigation

system on; repayment.

... 277, 1066

for surveys

740

88888867AAAAAAAAAGAGNA 

Fishing Tackle, duty on....
Fishlake National Forest, Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 426, 1248

Fishplates, Railway,

duty on, iron or steel.......

23

Fisk, Ark. ,

bridge_authorized across Saint Francis River between Saint Francis and... 179

Fisk, Mo.,

deficiency appropriation for fencing na-

tional bison range on.....

215

classification and appraisal of unsurveyed

lands in.....

862

sale of "barren, " etc., lands...

862

lands fronting Flathead Lake to be sold in

lots; proceeds ..

296

sale of portion of allotments of irrigable

lands; proceeds to allottee...

297

lands to be reserved to exchange for al-

bridge_authorized across Saint Francis

River, at...

352

Fitzgerald, Honorable John J.,

lotments made in power or reservoir

sites....

297

relinquishment by allottee..

297

designated a member of commission to

condemnation proceeding on refusal,

rearrange Hall of the House of Rep-

etc.

297

resentatives ....

1444 Flathead Lake, Mont.,

Five Civilized Tribes ofIndians, Okla.,

appropriation for improvement of Polson

appropriation for superintendent; Union

Bay.

666

Agency..

281 patents for lands bordering, subject to Gov-

for town-site expenses, Union Agency.. 281

ernment easement for water power.. 1066 .

forleasing lands of Creeks and Cherokees,

sale, etc., of lots in land fronting on, Flat-

and full-blooded Indians ..

281

head Indian Reservation

297

forexpenses, sale ofrestricted, etc. , lands. for removing intruders, etc.... for removing alienation restrictions for completing work of commission to.. for incidental expenses, Indian Service,
Okla......

281 Flathead National Forest, Mont.,

281 appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

281 Flax,

281 duty on, articles, embroidered, etc..........

50

bandings..

50

281

bands ...

50

for making sales of tribal property, etc.. 281 unexpended balances made available. 281

for district agents for minor Indians,

etc..

281, 1070

for payment to Chickasaw freedmen for

remnant allotments...

281

belts and beltings.

50

bindings..

50

braids..

50

carpets and carpeting of wool, etc., and. 55

carpets, mats, or rugs..

49

cords

deduction from award to Choctaws and

edgings..

Chickasaws ...

281

embroideries..

for expenses of suits for benefit of al-

fabrics, embroidered , etc .........

lottees....

281

featherstitch braids...

50

for tribal schools .

282

flouncings...

50

for expenses of administration..

1069

flouncings, hemstitched or tucked.

50

employee to sign_tribal deeds, etc.,

flutings...

50

for Secretary of Interior.

1069

galloons..

50

for fulfilling treaties with Choctaws..

1070

gill nettings, seines, etc..

49

tribal contracts for affairs, Choctaws

gorings..

50

and Chickasaws authorized...

1070

hackled, "dressed line"

49

receipts of tribal funds may be de- han posited in banks; interest... 1070 edkerchiefs.. 51 mbroidered....... 50

1xxxviii

INDEX .

89880

Flax- Continued . duty on, handkerchiefs, lace..

Page. 50

hose, hydraulic or flume.........

49

insertings..

50

lace articles..

50

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

51

napkins, lace..

50

neck rufflings.

50

nets ..

50

nettings..

50

not hackled or dressed .

48

ornaments ..

50

pile fabrics..

51

quillings..

50

ribbons..

50

ruchings..

50

shirting cloth.

51

skirtings, hemstitched or tucked .

50

straw..

48

tapes.

50

measuring.

49

threads, twines, or cords..

49

trimmings..

50

tow of..

49

tuckings..

50

veils or veilings..

50

wearing apparel, embroidered .

50

lace ...

50

webs and webbings...

50

woven articles, not specially provided

for.....

51

fabrics, not specially provided for............ 51

yarns.

49

on free list, machines for weaving linen

from, prior to January 1, 1911..

32

Flax, Hemp, and Jute, and Manufactures of,

Schedule J, Tariff of 1909..

48

Flaxseed,

duty on...

37

oil, raw, boiled or oxidized .

14

2 2 2 286

Fleshing Knives,

duty on..

27

Flexible Metal Tubing or Hose,

duty on, not specially provided for........ *26

Flies,

duty on, artificial fishing

28

Flint,

on free list, unground, flints and flint

stones...

75

Flint River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of................ Floats,
duty on...... Flocks,
duty on, cotton, manufactured . woolen...
on free list, cotton.. Flood Waters in Rivers,

643, 939
27
42 53 75

2 233

investigation of feasibility, etc., of im-

pounding, by reservoirs...

956

Floor Coverings,

duty on oilcloth, etc.....

49

Floor Mattings,

duty on straw, etc. , not otherwise provided

for...

49

Floral Waters,

duty on..

16

Florence, Ala.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

limit of cost increased, public building.

677

terms of court at; rooms required...

1106

Florence Crittenton Hope and Help Mission,

D. C.,

appropriation for care of women and chil-

dren in....

410, 1002

Florence, S. C., terms of court at..

Page. 1123

Florida,

appropriation for relief, etc. , Seminole In-

dians in..

1063

for constructing marine biological sta-

tion on Gulf coast of....

1440

assigned to fifth judicial circuit.

1131

marine biological station authorized on

Gulf coast of....

964

donation of land, etc..

964

admissions for investigations...

964

"Florida" First-Class Battleship,

limit of cost for building, at navy yard in-

creased ...

1288

Florida National Forest, Fla.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1248 Florida Northern Judicial District,

acts of C. M. Cox as de facto commissioner,

legalized ....

230

counties composing..

1108

terms of court..

1108

Florida Southern Judicial District,

counties composing.

1108

terms of court..

1108

Floss, Silk,

duty on..

57

Flouncings,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc.

50

hemstitched or tucked..

50

cotton, silk, etc. , made on lever or

Gothrough machine ......

50

silk....

woolen ...

54

Flour,

duty on, buckwheat..

35

rice ..

35

rye.......

36

wheat.

36

on free list, sago.

79

tapioca....

80

Flower Bulbs,

duty on, not otherwise provided for....... 37

Flower Essences, Primal,

on free list, liquid and solid, not com-

pounded .

77

Flower Seeds,

on free list...

79

Flowers,

duty on, artificial, millinery ornaments ... 66

cut, fresh, etc..

36

drugs..

13

on free list, crude, drugs, not specially

provided for.....

75

Flowers ofSulphur,

duty on refined ..

17

Flues,

duty on, iron or steel, welded, seamed, or

jointed .

plate metal, reenforced ..

Flume Hose,

duty on cotton, flax, etc..

49

Fluoric Acid,

on free list...

Fluorspar,

duty on.

18

Flushing Bay, N. Y., approprbioarti.o.n.. for improvement of har635

Flutings,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc........

50

Fluxes,

duty on, used for enamel, etc., arti-

cles .

15

Fog Signals, appropriation for expenses of................... 754, 1431

83¢ F 2 880 1 2

INDEX .

Lxxxix

Folding Room, House ofRepresentatives,

Page.

appropriation for superintendent, folders,

etc...

476, 1178

deficiency appropriation for folding

speeches....

128

Folding Room, Senate,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

folders, etc.....

472, 1174

Foliage Bulbs, duty on, not otherwise provided for....... 37

Food Products, American,

appropriation for investigating tests made

in foreign countries of...

431, 1255

Food Purposes,

census schedules of cattle, etc., slaughtered

for, and all hides produced......

228

Food Supplies,

investigation authorized of cost of, at the

farm and to consumer..

440

investigation continued, of .

1264

Foods, etc., appropriation for investigating adultera-

tions, false branding, etc., of..... 432, 1255

Foods, etc., D. C., appropriation for detecting adulterating

of...

402, 993

Forage, Army,

officers separated from, authorized number

ofhorses not deprived of....

252

Forage Plants,

appropriation for investigations of insects

affecting.....

433, 1257

Forage Seeds, appropriation for testing commercial; exposure ofadulterated............ 422, 1242

Fordyce, Ark.,

appropria ion for public building.....

1371

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

688

Foreign-Born Persons, etc.,

census inquiries to include nationality or

mother tongue of..

877

Foreign Commerce, Internal and (see also In-

terstate Commerce Regulations),

appropriation for experts, etc., procuring

facts relative to...

526, 1228

prevention of shipping adulterated or mis-

branded insecticides, etc., in...

331

railway accidents to be reported monthly by carriers in; investigations, etc .. 350

regulations of transportation of females

for immoral practices, etc.....

825

Foreign Corporations,

excise tax levied on net incomes from busi-

ness in United States..

112

Foreign Counsel, United States Courts,

appropriation for, employed as attorneys in

special cases..

750, 1426

Foreign Countries,

appropriation for relief of shipwrecked

American seamen in.....

346, 1036

imports from, imposing discriminations

against United States products, etc.,

subject maximum tariff...

82

32 888

imposing no discriminations against

United States, etc., subject to mini-

mum tariff..

82

termination of reciprocal commercial agree-

ments with, under tariff of 1897 .

83

Foreign Gold Coin,

issue ofgold certificates for deposits at New York and San Francisco of................. 965

Foreign Governments,

on free list, public documents issued by.. 74

punishment for disclosing national-defense

secrets to..

1084

Foreign Mails,

Page.

appropriation for transportation.... 364, 1337

for clerks on steamships.......

364, 1337

for pier transfers, New York and San

Francisco, etc.....

364, 1337

for assistant superintendent, New

York.....

364, 1337

for balances due foreign countries.... 364, 1337

for intaglio seals for...

.. 366, 1339

deficiency appropriation for transport-

ing....

224, 1327

for balances due foreign countries..

802

Foreign Mails Division, Post-Office Depart-

ment,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc...

520, 1222

Foreign Intercourse (see Diplomatic and Consular Service) .

Foreign Tariffs,

appropriation for collating, etc................... 525, 1227

Foreign Trade and Treaty Relations,

appropriation for advancement of...... 484, 1186

deficiency appropriation for expenses for

advancement of..

119

Foreign Vessels,

discriminating duty on importations in.... 87

exceptions under treaties or acts of Con-

gress...

87

Foreign War Vessels,

may purchase supplies free of tax, from

bonded, and bonded manufactur-

ing, warehouses; conditions.......

88

Forest Fires,

appropriation for cooperating with States

to protect watersheds of navigable

streams from..

961

for fighting, etc.

430, 1252

forfightingand preventing, inemergency

cases .

1264

deficiency appropriation for expenses, etc.,

incurred in fighting...

1312

Forest Product and Manufacturing Company, may bridge Pearl River, in Mississippi.... 179

Forest Reserves (see National Forests).

Forest Service, Department ofAgriculture,

appropriation for forester, supervisors,

rangers, etc...

424, 1244

for chiefs of divisions, clerks, etc..

1245

for draftsmen, mechanics, etc ....

1245

forgeneral expenses....

424, 1246

tests outside jurisdiction of United

States forbidden.......

424, 1246

foradministration ofnational forests.. 424, 1246

cale of timber; restriction, Black

Hills .....

424, 1246

for care offish and game..

.. 425, 1246

for agents, labor, etc ..

425, 1246

for collating, printing, etc., investiga

tions..

425, 1246

for contingent expenses...

425, 1247

traveling expenses of legal and fiscal

officers..

425, 1247

for expenses, maintenance of national

forests...

425, 1247

for fighting forest fires, etc..

430, 1252

for supplies, instruments, and equip-

ments.

430, 1252

for promoting economy in forest prod-

ucts...

430, 1252

for improving range conditions.

430, 1252

for experiments in tree planting, cutting,

etc.

430, 1252

for cooperative, etc., investigations to determine conservative management

offorests..

430, 1252

for market, etc., investigations, experi-

ments, etc...

430, 1253

XC

INDEX .

Forest Service, Department of Agriculture- Page. Continued.

appropriation for testing plants and woods

for paper making...

430

traveling expenses restricted .

430, 1253

restriction on preparing articles for

newspapers, etc..

430, 1253

repayments for erroneous collections,

etc.

1253

for permanent improvements..

431, 1253

interchangeable appropriations.......... 431, 1253 rights of way allowed for electric lines

across national forests..

1253

for fighting forest fires, emergency..

1264

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses... 224, 226, 812, 814, 1312, 1324, 1327

for expenses, loss of life and injuries

fighting forest fires....

1312

for temporary employees fighting forest

fires..

1312

for horses, etc. , destroyed in fighting

forest fires...

1312

for national forests administration..

1324

detailed report to be made of all expendi-

tures and receipts of, from 1900 to

1910 ...

1265

details of fiscal agents for.

434

investigation by joint Congressional committee ofInterior Department and.. 871

Forests,

appropriation for investigating insects

affecting....

433, 1257

Forfeitures under Federal Laws,

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

sive of State, in suits for......

1161

Forgings,

duty on axle, of iron or steel, not otherwise

provided for..

25

iron or steel, not machined, etc .....

Forked Deer River, Tenn., appropriation for improvement of......... 651

Forks,

duty on, with handles...

27

without handles .

27

tuning.....

70

Fort Atkinson, Wis.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

688

Fort Belknap Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at.

276, 1066

Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for extension of Milk River

irrigation system on..

277,1066

advances a lien on allotments in fee;

satisfaction...........

1066

Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

279, 1068

deficiency appropriation for Indian agent. 124

unsurveyed part of, to be surveyed..

455

disposal of unallotted and unreserved

lands; location....

455

minerals lands excepted .

455

relinquishment of allotments..

455

additional allotments ...

455

to Indians; location ..

455

reservations for agency, schools, etc.; Indian village and burying ground.. 455

tribal farm; management, etc ..

456

power and reservoir sites...

456

allotments in, to be canceled..

456

townsites to be surveyed, etc.; sale of lots.- 456

payments; use of proceeds.....

456

22 222

Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak. - Continued. appraisal and sale of homesteads......................... classification of lands.......
mineral and timber lands excepted.. sections 16 and 36, granted to North Da-
kota; lieu land selections; restrictions... payment to Indians....

Page. 456 457 457
457 457

opening unreserved lands to entry by proc-

lamation..

457

method of entry and payment...

457

reappraisal of undisposed of lands..................... 458

timber lands reserved for Indians...... 458

deposit of proceeds to credit of Indians.. 458

appropriation for purchase of school sec-

tions.....

458

for expenses of survey, appraising, etc.;

reimbursement..

458

intoxicants prohibited .

458

liability of United States defined .

458

treaty rights unimpaired...................

459

Fort Bliss, Tex.,

exchange of lands for target range at, au-

thorized ..

258

Fort Bridger Military Reservation, Wyo., Carey Act extended to lands of abandoned. 913

Fort Brown, Tex.,

appropriation for maintenance of agricul-

tural testing garden.......

423, 1243

Fort Collins, Colo., .

appropriation for public building.

1371

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677

Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo., appropriation for completing rifle range at. 258

for improving water supply; purchase of

land for maneuvering grounds, etc.. 1052

right of way granted through reservation, to

Colorado Railroad Company..

1012

Laramie County for county road..

1012

Fort Dodge, Iowa, appropriation for public building... for rent.....

1371 705, 1371

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677

terms of court at..

1111

Fort George Wright, Wash., appropriation for enlarging hospital at........... 258

Fort H. G. Wright, N. Y., appropriation for construction of hospital. 258

Fort Hall Indian Reservation, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of......

274, 1063

for completing irrigation system on ..... 274, 774, 1063

charges for water rights, lands in pri-

vate ownership...

274

disposal of forfeited lands....

274

acceptance of portion of allotment within

irrigated, allowed Indians of.........

275

reservation of lands for grazing purposes of

Indians on...

275

allotment of irrigable and grazing lands to

Indians on..

1063

lands set aside to Indians for domestic tim-

ber....

1064

for agency, school, and religious purposes 1064

for stone quarries, lease or operation .... 1064

to be allotted to Indians occupying tracts

in "Fort Hall Bottoms" grazing re-

serve.....

1064

former restrictions removed ..

1064

Fort Hancock, N. J., acceptance of land for sewer outlet....... 722

Fort Keogh, Mont.,

pumping station, etc., for Miles City al-

lowed on, reservation......

1027

INDEX .

xci

Fort Lafayette Naval Magazine, N. Y., appropriation for public works...
Fort Leavenworth, Kans.,

Page. 1277

appropriation for Army Staff College... 244, 1037

for military prison...

722

right of way granted across reservation, to

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Rail-

way.

875

Fort Lewis, Colo.,

Indian school at, granted to Colorado ..... 274

sale, etc., if not accepted by State...... 274

Fort McHenry Channel, Md.,
appropriation for range lights....... Fort MacKenzie, Wyo.,

.... 1431

right of waygranted through reservation, to

"

Sheridan Railway and Light Com-

pany..

1011

Fort Madison, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at.

681

Fort Marion, Fla. ,

release of strip of land to Saint Augustine

from ...

1057

Fort Mason, Cal.,

appropriation for Army supply depot, con-

struction of building, etc..

1399

Fort Mason Military Reservation, Cal.,

San Francisco may maintain pumping sta-

tion on..

534

Fort Meade, S. Dub.,

appropriation for land, etc., to protect wa-

ter supply.

1052

Fort Mifflin Naval Magazine, Pa.,

appropriation for public works.

617, 1277

deficiency appropriation for....

1304

Fort Missoula, Mont.,

appropriation for construction of hospital.. 258

Fort Mojave, Ariz.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 273, 1062

Fort Monroe, Va.,

appropriation for coast artillery school . 244, 1038

for wharf, repairs, etc...

722, 1399

for repairs ofroads, etc..

722, 1399

for sewer system....

722, 1399

Fort Morgan, Colo., appropriation for public building.. .... 1371

acquiring site for public building at,.

authorized...

689

Fort Mott, N. J., appropriation for road from Harrisonville

to....

350

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, Nebr.,

time extended to dam Niobrara River, on. 920

forright of way, etc........

921

Fort Peck Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for support etc., of Indians

at..

277, 1066

Fort Pond Bay, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 953

Fort Putnam, West Point, N. Y.,

appropriation for restoration of.....

1026

Fort Recovery, Ohio,

monument authorized at, to officers and sol-

diers killed by Indians in 1791 and

1794...

311

appropriation for; expenditure .

311

site and maintenance to be provided for.. 311

Fort Riley, Kans., appropriation for
School....

Mounted

Service ... 244, 1037

right of way granted across military reser-

vation....

1363

Fort Sam Houston, Tex.,

appropriation for chapel at..

1050

Fort Scott, Kans.,

terms of court at.

1112

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla.,

Page.

right of way across, granted Lawton and Fort Sill Electric RailwayCompany. 268

Fort Smith and Van Buren District, Ark.,

may bridge Arkansas River between Fort

Smith and Van Buren.....

.229

Fort Smith, Ark.,

bridge authorized across Arkansas River

between Van Buren and............

229

sale of portion of national cemetery reser-

vation to...

917

terms of court at.

1107

Fort Snelling, Minn.,

appropriation for bridge across Mississippi

River at, care, etc....

730

Fort Spokane Military Reservation, Wash., Old,
sale of Indian school, etc., on, to Washing-

ton, authorized; reservation of power

and reservoirsitesand mineral lands. 1075

Fort Sumner Land District, N. Mex.,

created; boundaries.....

585

transfer of plats, etc.......

585

register and receiver to be appointed...... 585

Fort Taylor, Fla.;

deficiency appropriation for purchase of 

wharf at..

210

Fort Totten, N. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 279, 1068 Fort Totten, N. Y.,

appropriationforexpenses, torpedodepot 598, 1342 Fort Trumbull, Conn.,

reservation transferred to Revenue-Cutter

Service.....

906

concurrent use of wharf..

907

Fort Wayne, Ind.,

report, etc., to be made on proposed canal

from Lake Erie to Lake Michigan by

way of Maumee River and...

956

terms of court at.....

1110

Fort Worth, Tex.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, heating apparatus...

1293

term of circuit court of appeals at......... 1133

all appellate proceedings in Texas to be

heard at...

1133

exception for Beaumont division.

1133

terms of district court at.

1125

Fort Yellowstone,

appropriation for chapel in Yellowstone

Park at.......

1050

Fort Yuma, Ariz.,

strip of land, reservation, granted to Yuma

for street extension...

583

Fortifications,

appropriation for fire-control installa-

tions...

596, 1341

for range finders, etc..

596, 1341

for electric plants, seacoast fortifications. 1341

for searchlights for harbor defense.... 596, 1341

for preservation and repair.....

596, 1341

for plans.....

596, 1341

for supplies for electric plants, etc... 596, 1341

for preserving torpedo structures..... 596, 1341

for care, etc., submarine mines.

1341

foroperating fire-control installations. 597, 1341

for armament..

597, 1341

formountain, field , and siege cannon. 597, 1341

for ammunition...

597, 1341

for ammunition for seacoast cannon.. 597,1341

for ammunition for seacoast artillery

practice......

597, 1342

for altering, etc., mobile artillery. 597,1342 for ammunition for field, etc., artillery

practice.......

597, 1342

for alterations for rapid-fire batteries. 597, 1342

xcii

INDEX .

Fortifications - Continued .

Page. Fourth Assistant Postmaster General Contd. Page.

appropriation for altering, etc. , seacoast

guns .

597, 1342

for expenses, Sandy Hook proving

ground..

597, 1342

for purchase, etc., submarine mines.. 597, 1342

for insular possessions, seacoast batteries,

Hawaiian Islands..

1343

Philippine Islands..

598, 1343

for electric plants, Philippine Islands. 598, 1343

for harbor searchlights, Philippine

Islands....

598

Hawaiian Islands..

1343

appropriation for postal service, office

of..

365, 1338

for postal supplies.

365, 1338

for expenses, shipping supplies...... 366, 1339

forintaglio seals, foreign mail service . 366, 1339 for star-route transportation, except in

Alaska..

1339

for rural delivery..

366, 1339

for travel and miscellaneous expenses.. 366, 1339

Fourth Class Mail Matter,

use of "Please do not open until Christ-

mas" allowed on.......

1340

for preservation, repair, etc., Philippine

Fourth Judicial Circuit,

Islands....

598, 1343 Statesincluded in..

1131

for preservation, repair, etc., torpedo

two circuitjudgesauthorized for.

1131

structures, Philippine Islands... 598 1343 Fourth ofJuly Claims,

for supplies, etc., batteries, Hawaiian

no claim to be allowed for, when claimant

Islands....

1343

willfully increases the amount due.. 1141

Philippine Islands..

598, 1343 Fourth Street SE., D. C.,

for land defenses, Philippine Islands.... 1343

for fire-control installations, insular pos-

sessions...

598, 1343

for seacoast cannon, etc., insular posses-

sions..

598, 1343

for ammunition for seacoast cannon, in-

sular possessions...

598, 1343

for altering, etc., seacoast artillery, insu-

lar possessions...

598, 1343

forinstallation of seacoast artillery, insu-

sular possessions...

1343

for land turrets for coast defense, insular

possessions....

599

purchases to be of American manufac-

ture .....

599, 1343

interchange of material allowed ..

1344

for constructing fire-control installations,

insular possessions.....

599

for Board of Ordnance and Fortification,

tests, etc....

599,1344

civilian member; necessary ex-

penses....

599, 1344

inquiry as to right of invention, etc. 599, 1344

punishment fordisclosing, etc., unlawfully,

information respecting...

1084

extension through Government reserva-

tion authorized ..

243

Fowls, Land and Water,

on free list..

73

Fox and Sac Indians ofthe Mississippi, Okla.,

interest at five per cent authorized on fund

to credit of..

280

Fox and Sac Indians ofthe Missouri, Kans.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with;

school...

1064

Foxand Sac Indians, Okla. andIowa,

agreement with, for commutation of annu-

ities, ratified

289

amountaccepted .

289

rate and payment ofinterest.

289

Fox River, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of

657

for lighting..

754

Fractional Silver Coin,

deficiency appropriation for transporting. 225, 777

France,

appropriation forambassador to..

337, 1027

forsecretary ofembassy.

337, 1028

forsecond secretary..

338, 1028

for third secretary.

338, 1028

Forty-first Street NW., D. C., proceedingsto condemnland for extending. appropriation for expenses.. vacation of, between Warren and Yuma Streets; reversion............. revival of easement on nonuser...
Fossils, on free list..
Foster Falls, Va., dam authorized across New River, near...

Frankford Arsenal, Philadelphia, Pa.,

240 appropriation for overhauling, etc., boiler

240

plant..

720

for storage building .

1397

292

for artillery ammunition shop.....

1398

292 Frankford Creek, Pa., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 675

75 Frankfort, Ind.,

construction of public building author-

921

ized at..

681

Foulkrod, W. W., late a Representative in Con-

Frankfort, Ky.,

gress,

termsof courtat..

1112

deficiency appropriation for widow of..... 1317

Foundations of Buildings, etc. , Reenforced,

appropriation for investigating destructive

effects of electric currents on .... 528, 1232

Foundlings Home, D. C.,

appropriation to care of children in.... 410, 1001

Fountain Pens,

· dutyon

31

Fountains, etc., D. C.,

location, etc., of, in streets, parks, etc., to

be submitted to Commission of Fine

Arts....

371

Fourth Assistant Postmaster General,

appropriation for, superintendents, clerks,

etc..

521, 1223

Frankfort, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 654, 946

Franklin, La., appropriation for waterway to Mermentau

from .

648

for public building.

1371

changes authorized in inland waterway to

Mermentau from..

942

Franklin Street NE., D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extension of. 200

appropriation for....

200

Franklin, Va.,

appropriationforpublic building.

1371:

acquiringsite for publicbuilding at, author-

ized .

692

for division of rural delivery.. for division of dead letters.. for division of supplies.... for division of topography.

521, 1223 Franking Privilege,

521, 1223 of Members of Congress accorded to Resi-

521, 1223

dent Commissioners from Philippine

521 , 1223

Islands:....

910

INDEX .

xciii

Franks, Interstate,

Page.

giving or receiving unauthorized, unlaw-

ful; penalty.

546

Fraternal Beneficial Societies, or Orders,

exemptfrom corporation tax.

113

Frauds upon Customs Revenue,

appropriation for detection and prevention

of, increased..

716, 1393

Frauds upon the Revenues, etc.,

appropriation for investigation and prose-

cution of.

748, 1424

deficiency appropriation for investigation,

etc....

213

payment of special assistant attorneys. 213

Fraudulent Conveyances, Five Civilized Tribes,

appropriation forsuitstosetaside....

748

Fraudulent Entries,

appropriation for protecting public lands

from...

739

allowancesto agents.

739

Frazier, S. M.,

deficiency appropriation for....

209

Frederica River, Ga.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Frederick, Md.,

appropriation for public building..

1371

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

690

Free List,

Tariff of1909..

71

Freedmen's Hospital and Asylum, D. C.;

appropriation for care of indigent patients 407,999

for expenses.. 'forrent, nurses' quarters..

746, 1423 -14 747, 1423

for additional wing, etc..

747, 1423

for home for nurses..

1423

deficiency appropriation for power, etc. , plant for Howard University and... 796

Freeport, Ill. ,

terms of court of..

1110

Freestone, duty on, not specially provided for........ 21

Freight Agents of Railroads, nameto be posted at every freight station . 548

Freight Cars,

safety appliances required on...

298

Freight Depots, Yards, etc., included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations ..

545

Freight, Navy, and Navy Department, appropriation for...

620, 1279

deficiency appropriation for... 221, 810, 813, 1322

Freight on Bullion and Coin,

appropriation for.....

492, 1194

Freight, Postal Service,

appropriation for paying, on postal cards,

etc ...

362, 1335

supplies to be sent by, preceding

weighing periods......

362, 1335

Freight Statistics,

uniform classifications to be made for, re-

lating to river and harbor traffic . 668,952 Fremont National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248

Fremont, Nebr.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc....

207

Fremont, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.....

1371

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

691

French Broad River, N. C., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674

French Broad River, Tenn., appropriation for improvement of....................... 652

French Spoliation Claims, appropriation for defense in..

Page. 748, 1424

deficiency appropriation for paying, to

Leigh Bonsal, administrator......

205

Fresno, Cal.,

terms of court at.

1107

17 STOK

Friezes, Tile,

duty on..

17

Fringes,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair.....

60

bead or spangle..

64

silk..

60

woolen.

54

Frostburg, Md., appropriation for public building ...... 1372
Frostings, duty on, not specially provided for....... 15
Fruit Brandy,

artificially sweetened wine, etc., permitted

in making...

1014

Fruit Ethers, Oils, or Essences,

duty on.

13

Fruit Knives,

duty on.

27

Fruit Plants,

on free list, tropical and semitropical..... 75

Fruita, Colo.,..

granted lands for public park........

460

Fruits,

appropriation for investigating methods of

585983

growing, shipping, etc...... for experimental exports, etc...

422, 1243 · 422, 1243

for investigations of insects affecting de-

ciduous .

433, 1257

duty on artificial, millinery ornaments..

66

edible, dried, etc..

37

not edible; drugs..

13

preserved in sugar, etc.

on free list, crude, not edible, not specially

provided for..

75

green, ripe, or dried, not specially pro-

vided for....

75

FF

in brine, not specially provided for...

75

Fruits, Imported (see Perishable Articles,

etc.).

Fuel Compositions,

duty on coal...

65

Fuel, Lights, and Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for...

715, 1391

furnishing steam for pneumatic tubes,

postal service ..

715, 1392

deficiency appropriation for..

121,

219,808, 1294, 1320

Fuel Substances, Mineral,

appropriation for testing, etc.....

742, 1419

tests for outside parties; charges, etc .. 1419

investigations of, transferred to Bureau of

Mines..

370

8885

Fuller, ChiefJustice Melville Weston,

appropriation for bust of the late...

1427

for oil portrait.

1427

Fuller's Earth,

duty on.

18

Fulminates,

dutyonallother, notspecially provided for. 66

for miners' use..

66

Fulton, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of Red

River, below...

648

between Denison, Tex., and..

648

Fulton, Ky.,.

appropriation for public building .

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

685

xciv

INDEX.

Fulton, Mo.,

Page.

appropriation for public building .

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building.

at, authorized ..

686

Fulton, N. Y. ,

construction of public building authorized .

at.

682

Fungicides (see Insecticide Act).
Fur-Bearing Animals, Alaska, punishment for unauthorized killing of... 327
Fur Seals, Alaskan (see Alaskan Seal Fisheries) .
Fur Skins,

on free list, not dressed, not specially pro-

vided for..

75

Furnaces,

duty on welded cylindrical, reinforced..... 26

Furniture,

duty on, house or cabinet, wood

34

willow.

34

Furniture, Household,

on free list, of persons from foreign coun-

tries..

74

Furniture, Public Buildings,

appropriation for, and repairs.

714, 1391

deficiency appropriation for.. 205, 808, 1294, 1320

for Cleveland, Ohio...........

205

2 5858552 28 2

Furnival, First Lieutenant Richard,

lineal rank in Coast Artillery Corps cor-

rected ....

202

Furs,

duty on, carrotted fur skins .

67

dressed on the skin.....

66

hats, bonnets, or hoods .

67

manufactures of..

66

not on the skin, for hatters' use..

67

wearing apparel...

67

on free list, undressed..

75

Fusains,

duty on..

15

Fusel Oil,

duty on..

14

Fuses, Mining, etc.,

duty on, not composed of cotton....

66

Fusible Enamel,

duty on...

21

G.

Gadsden, Ala.,

appropriation for public building..

1372

limit of cost increased, public building... 677

terms of court at; rooms required....

1106

Gaffney, S. C.,

appropriation for public building.......... 1372

Gainesville, Fla.,

appropriation for public building..

705

limit of cost increased, public building.. 678

terms of court at....

1108

Gainesboro, Tenn., bridge authorized across Cumberland River

at...

185

Gallatin National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 426, 1248 Gallic Acid,

duty on...

12

Galloons,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair....

60

beads or spangles..

64

cotton, flax, etc......

50

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

Gothrough machine...

50

silk..

60

tinsel wire, etc..

30

woolen...

54

Galveston Channel, Tex.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of; exten-

sion permitted.

648, 943

water main and electric cables authorized

across...

372

Galveston Ship Channel and Buffalo Bayou (see Houston Ship Channel, Tex.).
Galveston, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

diversion...

649, 943

for improvement of channel to Texas

City.....

649, 943

· for water main and electric cable to Peli-

can Spit immigration station....

764

for appraisers' stores..

1372

enlargement ofappraisers' storesauthorized. 680

terms of court at.

1127

water main and electric cables authorized

across Galveston Channel to immi-

gration and life saving stations at... 372 Galvin, J. Mitchell,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses..........

1317

Gambier,

on free list.....

75

Game,

appropriation for preventing shipment of

illegally killed...

434, 1258

for purchasing, etc., for reservations .. 1258

duty on, fresh, not birds ..

38

Game, Alaska,

appropriation for protection of........... 745, 1420 Game and Fish Laws, D. C.,

appropriation for enforcing.. Game Birds,

382, 974

importation of eggs of, prohibited ; excep-

tion .....

75

allowed for propagation; regulations... 75 Game Birds, Alaska,
open season for, extended to entire Terri-

tory..

1360

Gamwell, Arthur,

deficiency appropriation for..........

794

Garbage, D. C.,

appropriation for removal of..

389, 980

five-year contracts authorized .

389

Garces National Forest, Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 426

Garden City, Kans.,

appropriation for public building.

1372

acquiring site and ere ng public building

at, authorized...

685

Gardiner, Me.,

appropriation for public building.

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

685

Gardiner, Öreg.,

made port of delivery..

579

Garfield County, Utah,

appropriation forsurveying public lands in. 741

Garfield Hospital, Washington, D. C.,

appropriation for isolating ward ..

403, 994

forsupport of destitute patients in.... 731, 1408

for furnishing, etc., new children's ward. 731

for additional land..

731

for improving grounds..

1408

Garlic,

duty on...

36

Garnetted Wool Waste,

duty on..

53

Garrard, Captain Louis F.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts....

1300

Garters,

duty on, cotton, etc., and india rubber.... 48

silk..

60

8888

INDEX .

XCV

Gary, Ind., appropriation for public building..

Page. 1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

685

Gary Land Company,

may bridge Grand Calumet River, Lake

County, Ind...

468

Gas and Water Pipes,

appropriation for investigating destruc-

tive effects of electric currents

on..

... 528, 1232

Gas Bearing Lands,

within temporary reservations for power

sites, etc. , not open to occupation,

etc ..

847

rights of bona fide claimants not im-

paired...

847

status ofasserted claims..

847

Gas Mantles,

duty on.

30

scrap .

30

Gas, Mineral,

patents for mineral entries not to be denied

solely because assigned before dis-

covery of..

1015

Gas Pipe Lines, Natural,

right of way for, granted through public

lands in Arkansas....

296

Gas. Retorts,

duty on..

19

Gasconade River, Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 661, 949 preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Gasoline,

means for extinguishing, required on motor

boats..

463

on free list..

78

Gassaway, James A.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318 Gastonia, N.

appropriation for public building...........

1372

Gaufre Leather,

duty on....

68

Gaugers, etc., Internal Revenue,

appropriation for salaries, etc..

494, 1196

deficiency appropriation for fees, etc.... 1291

allowed cumulative leaves of absence... 592

pay increased of certain.......

928

Gauging Water Supply ofthe United States,

appropriation for..

743, 1418

Geisel, C. A., deficiency appropriation for services............... 127

Gelatin,

duty on..

14

in sheets, emulsions, etc.....

14

manufactures of, not specially provided

for...

14

Gems,

· on free list, not for sale, for religious, edu-

cational, etc., purposes...

79

Genealogical, etc., Information,

may be furnished from census population

schedules

10

General Account of Advances, Navy,

amount transferred from permanent naval

supply fund...

1279

stores to be accounted for by naval supply

account..

1279

expenditures under, limited..

1279

payments for naval supply account from ;

credits, etc...

792

General Appraisers (see Board of General

Appraisers).

GeneralGrant National Park, Cal.,

appropriation for protection, etc....... 745, 1421

72855

General Land Office (see also Public Lands), Page.

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc....

512, 1214

for investigations, etc....

513, 1215

for maps; distribution ..

513, 1215

for filing system appliances..

1215

for salaries, copyists and clerks ..

740

deficiency appropriation for completing

filing system....

212

for Glen R. Metsker.. ....

1308

for Charles F. Read....

1308

for expenses of inspectors.....

1323

office building authorized for, and other bureaus, etc., in Washington ..... 699
General Land Office, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc. 512, 1215

assistant to be appointed by the President;

duties, etc...

512

General Staff Corps, Army,

appropriation for translator, etc., military

information division.....

249, 1043

General Supply Committee,

established; composition...

531

to make annual schedule for supplies for

Governments, etc ......

531

to open bids, etc..

531

Geneva Convention,

appropriation for expenses of meeting of

Red Cross Conference...

1034

"Geneva Cross,"

punishment for unauthorized use of....... 604 Genoa, Nebr.,

appropriationfor Indian school; repairs. 278, 1067 Geodetic Association, International,

appropriation for payment of quota.... 342, 1032

for expenses of delegates...

756

Geological Survey,

appropriation for transferring laboratories,

etc., to Bureau of Mines..

742

for Director, clerks, etc....

743, 1417

for scientific assistants.....

743, 1418

for general expenses................

743, 1418

for skilled laborers, etc.

743, 1418

for topographic surveys..

743, 1418

for geologic surveys....

743, 1418

for chemical and physical researches. 743, 1418

for preparing illustrations....

743, 1418

for report on mineral resources....... 743, 1418

forgauging water supply. for books, etc....

743, 1418 743, 1418

for geologic maps...

743, 1418

for survey of national forests...

743, 1418

for engraving illustrations for.

769, 1446

for printing and binding for..

769, 1446

for rent...

516, 1218

deficiency appropriation for rent of addi-

tional rooms, diversion authorized.. 124

for replacing articles destroyed by fire.. 124

for mineral resources, Alaska...

212, 890

for expenses.

222,811, 1323

for John D. McChesney.

795

for John L. Saunders..

795

for surveying forest reserves....

811

for Daniel E. Williard..

1309

for Philip S. Smith.

1309

office building authorized for, and other

bureaus, etc., in Washington...... 699

transfer to Bureau of Mines of investiga-

tions of structural materials..

370

mineral fuel substances..

370

mine explosions.....

370

experts, apparatus, etc...

370

Geological Survey, Director of,

appropriation for, clerks, scientific assist-

ants, etc....

743, 1417

xcvi

INDEX .

4929

22A222 28*228*2°9

George Washington University Hospital, D. C., Page. | Gimps,

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

duty on woolen ...

tients .....

408,999 Gin (see Distilled Spirits).

Georgetown, Ky.,

Ginger,

appropriation for public building.

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

duty on, ale or beer..... cordial......................... .

at, authorized ..

685

wine...

Page. 54
41 40 40

Georgetown Reservoir, D. C.,
appropriation for remodeling. Georgetown University Hospital, D. C.,
appropriation for care of indigent tients......
Georgia, assigned to fifth judicial circuit...

983
pa408, 999 1131

Ginger Root,

on free list, unground, not preserved...... 79

Girders,

duty on iron or steel...

22

Girls' Reform School, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.. Glacier National Park, Mont.,

407,998

donated obsolete brass cannon for Confeder-

appropriation for improvement, etc.... 745, 1421

ate cemetery at Marietta....

.875 established; boundaries..

354

Georgia Northern Judicial District,

trespassers to be removed...

354

counties composing northern division... 1108 valid existing claims not affected

354

eastern division ..

1108 rights of way for railroads, or reclamation

western division... northwestern division..

1108

projects.....

354

1108 lands claimed by railroads, etc., not a basis

terms of court..........

1108

for indemnity selections...

354

Georgia Southern Judicial District, counties composing eastern division..

regulations for care, etc., to be made..

354

1109 leases permitted for inns, cottages, etc .. 355

western division..

1109 removal ofmature, etc., timber...

355

northeastern division...

1109 Glass,

southwestern division..

1109 duty on, articles, decorated , etc.

19

Albany division...,.

1109

bottles, etc., plain..............

19

terms ofcourt...

1109

bottles, etc. , decorated, etc..

19

Ben Hill County attached to Albany divi-

sion of...

181

"Georgia," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs .

1280

German Settlement in America, First,

contribution authorized for monument at

cast, crown, etc., when bent, decorated,

etc., additional ....

cylinder and crown, polished ..

20

cylinder, crown, and common window,

unpolished..

19

fusible enamel..

21

Germantown, to commemorate ..... 1352

approval of design, etc..

1352

6909

German Silver,

duty on..

29

jewelry articles of....

67

Germantown, Pa.,

ground or polished strips, prisms, etc..

20

Tenses, etc...

magic-lantern slides....

manufactures of, not specially provided for.....

mirrors...

21

contribution authorized for monument at,

commemorating first German settle-

ment in America...

1352

Germany,

appropriation for ambassador to........ 337, 1027

for secretary of embassy..

337, 1028

for second secretary...

338, 1028

for third secretary.

338, 1028

replica of statue of General Von Steuben,

opal or cylinder tiling.. opera glasses, telescopes, etc ..
plate, fluted, rolled, or rough...... plate, polished, cast.... plate, polished, cast, silvered. stained or painted windows.... spectacles, etc..
on free list, enamel, white, for watch and clock dials...

authorized for presentation to Em-

peror of...

605

plates or disks, rough-cut, for optical instruments, etc ..

Gettysburg National Park, Pa.,

Glassport, Pa.,

appropriation for continuing establishment

bridge authorized across Monongahela

of...

725, 1401

River, Wilson to......

195

deficiency appropriation for battlefield

Glavis, Edward S.,

monuments and markers to Regu-

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1319

lars..

122 Glazes,

Gettysburg, Pa.,

duty on, used for ceramic, etc., articles ..... 15

appropriation for public building...

1372 Glaziers' Diamonds,

construction of public building authorized

on free list, not set.

75

at...

683 Glaziers' Lead,

Gila National Forest, N. Mex.,

duty on...

30

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 272, Glens Falls, N. Y.,

427, 1248 appropriation for public building..

1372

Gila River Indian Reservation, Ariz.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

appropriation for irrigation system..... 427, 1062

at, authorized ....

686

Gilbert, George,

Glenwood Springs, Colo.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 806 granted lands for public park.............

459

Gilberts Bar, Fla.,

Globe, Ariz.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670 appropriation for public building....

1372

Gill Nets and Nettings, duty on flax....

acquiring site for public building at, au-

49

thorized...

688

Gilmore, S. L., late a Representative in Con-

Gloucester, Mass.,

gress,

appropriation for improvement of har-

deficiency appropriation for widow of...... 1317

bor...

631, 934

INDEX .

xcvii

Glove Tranks, duty on..
Gloves,
duty on, cotton, men's and boys'. leather... lined .
pique, or prix seam.. stitched or embroidered.. Gloxinia Bulbs,

Page. 69
48
69 69

duty on

37

Glucose,

duty on..

34

Glue,

duty on..

14

fish....

14

size..

14

Glue Stock,

on free list.

76

Glycerin,

duty on, crude .

14

refined..

14

Goat Hair,

classification of, under Tariff Act............................ 52

Goats,

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced.....

228

Goatskins,

duty on dressed and finished ......

68

Goggles,

duty on, glass, and trames ..........

20

Gold,

duty on, articles of jewelry..

68

leaf...

30

manufactures of, not specially provided

for..

33

pens.....

31

on free list, bullion.....

74

coins...

74

medals received as prizes, etc.. ore..

sweepings.

GoldBeaters Molds and Skins,

on free list.....

76

Gold Certificates,

issued on deposit of gold coin; denomina-

tions, etc....

965

at New York and San Francisco, of for-

eign gold coin .....

965

of stamped gold bullion..

965

Gold Coins,

appropriation for recoinage of........... 713, 1390

issue ofgold certificates for deposit of..

965

for deposits of foreign, at New York and

San Francisco....

965 '

principal and interest of United States

bonds and certificates of indebted-

ness payable in...................

192

Gold Size,

duty on..

15

"Gopher," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs..................

621

Gonzales, Juan C.,

deficiency appropriation for..........

801

Gore, Frank E.,

deficiency appropriation for refund to..... 780

Gorings,

duty on cotton, flax, etc... silk..

woolen.

Goshen, Ind.,

appropriation for public building..................... 1372

Gothrough Lace Machines,

on free list prior to January 1, 1911................... 32

Gottschall, Oscar_M.,

appointed on Board of Managers, Volunteer

Soldiers' Home......

876



82ZZER8S2

32

Goulder, Holding, and Masten,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1310

Gouldsboro, Me.,

preliminary examination of Corea Harbor,

to be made.....

671

Gouverneur, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building..

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

686

Government Employees,

appropriation for medical examination of,

receiving pay for injuries........ 526, 1228

law granting compensation for injuries to, etc., applicable to Isthmian Canal .. 1452

punishment for falsifying accounts, etc ... 1355

making false report of public moneys or

securities...

1356

Government Establishments,

appropriation for expert inquiry into busi-

ness methods, etc., of..

703

Government Hospitalfor Insane, D. C.,

appropriation for support of indigent in-

sane, D. C.....

410, 1002

for current expenses..

745, 1421

for buildings and grounds..

746, 1422

for electric plant; from accrued pen-

sions...

1422

deficiency appropriation for John Sullivan. 796

for M. Sanger..

1309

for repairs...

1323

extension of Fourth Street through grounds

of, authorized .

243

Government in the Territories, appropriation for expenses.

500, 1202

Government Printing Office (see also Public

Printing and Binding),

appropriation for Public Printer and

salaries in office of......

766, 1444

for, doorkeepers, messengers, telephone

operators, etc...

766, 1445

for Deputy Public Printer and salaries

in office of..

767, 1445

for watch force..

767,1445

for paying salaries for holidays................. 767, 1445

forleaves ofabsence to employees..... 767, 1445

employees on annual salaries...

767

for public printing and binding; allot-

ment....

767, 1445

transfer of allotments for 1911..

1448

apportionment of expenses to work

executed.....

770, 1448

details ofemployees restricted .

770

for superintendent of documents and

salaries in office.of....

770, 1448

for contingent expenses..

770, 1448

control, etc., of Public Printer con-

tinued...

770

for installing water meters....

392

deficiency appropriation for bridge to con-

nect buildings...

129

for Samuel Robinson, William Madden,

and Joseph De Fontes...... 129, 807, 1319

for leaves of absence..

806

increase of allotment for printing and bind-

ing for Congress...

217

for machinery..

217

part of appropriation for holidays made available for leaves of absence ..... 1448

transfer of printing appropriation for

Weather Bureau to.....

891

Governors Island, Mass.,

transfer ofLovellslight depotto, authorized. 535

Gowanus Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of Bay Ridge and Red HookChannels.. 728, 1405
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 953

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11--100

xcviii

INDEX .

** 883* 223J*

Grab Irons, Railway,

Page. Grand Valley, Colo.,

Page:

cars to be equipped withsecure, on ladders. 298 granted lands for public park......

460

Grade Crossings, D. C., Elimination of, etc.,

Grande Ronde Agency, Oreg.,

appraisement of damages to property of

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

estate of Sarah Edwards...

336

of....................

283, 1071

appropriation for expenses and award... 336 Granite,

appraisement of damages to property of

duty on, not specially provided for........ 21

John B. Lord...

1344 Granite City, Ill.,

appropriation for expenses and award... 1345 appropriation for public building....

1372

appraisement of damages to property of

limit of cost increased, public building.. 677

Margaretha Weideman, etc......... 1346 monument to founder, permitted on post-

appropriation for expenses and awards.. 1347

office grounds...

697

appraisement of damages to property of

Grant County, N. Mex.,

William Frye White......

581

appropriation for expenses and award... 582

lands granted to New Mexico to pay bonds

issued by...

569

Grafton, W. Va.,

Grant County, Wash.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

683

bridge authorized across Columbia River,

between Kittitas County and...

600

Grain,

Grant, Memorial to General Ulysses S.,

appropriation for investigating handling,

appropriation for continuing work on..

etc., of; fixing grades.....

422,1242 Grants to Railroads, Land,

for investigating improvement of, and

provisions for requiring deposits for select-

production .....

422, 1242

ing, etc., unsurveyed lands under.. 834

Grains,

Grape Fruit,

duty on, artificial, millinery ornaments ... 66 duty on.

drugs...

13 Grape Sugar,

on free list, crude, drugs, not specially pro-

duty on.

34

vided for.....

75 Grapes,

Gramophones, etc., duty on.

duty on, dried ........

70

in barrels, etc..

Granadilla,

Graphophones, etc.,

duty on, sawed boards, etc .....

33 duty on.

70

on free list, logs, roughor hewn only..

81 Grass,

Grand Army Soldiers and Sailors Home,

D. C.,

appropriation for expenses...

410, 1001

Grand Army ofthe Republic,

duty on, braids, laces, etc.......
-hats, bonnets, and hoods...
manufactures of, not specially provided . for......

tents, etc., to be loaned for encampment at

on free list, seeds..

Salt Lake City, Utah..

183

Grand Calumet River,

bridge authorized across, at East Chicago,

Ind ..

178

Hammond, Ind .

293

bridges authorized across, Lake County,

Ind...

468, 587

Grand Forks, N. Dak.,

terms of court at..

1121

Grand Haven, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 654, 946

Grand Island, Nebr.,

terms of court at..

294, 1118

Grand Junction, Colo.,

appropriation for Indian school; deduc-

Grass Valley, Cal.,

construction of public building authorized

at.....

681

Grasses,

on free list, paper stock..

78

textile, not manufactured, not specially

provided for......

78

Graves of Confederate Soldiers and Sailors,

time extended for marking, who died in

northern prisons .

875, 1453

central monument when exact place not

identified ..

1453

inclusion of Oakwood Cemetery, Chicago,

Ill ...

882

tion if transferred to Colorado ....

274 Grays Harbor, Wash.,

granted to Colorado; conditions.

273

construction of public building authorized

at....

681

appropriation for improvement of, and Bar

Entrance, contracts......

665, 951

for improvement of innerportion ....... 665

Grand Juries, United States Courts, issue of venire for...

267, 1165

second allowed in large cities.. .... 267, 1165

by either circuit or district court..... 267, 1165

time of imprisonment before indictment

restricted ..

267, 1165

Grand Lake, La.,

Grays River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of................. 665, 951 Grazing Lands,

appropriation for investigating improve-

ment of.

... 442, 1243

Grease,

on free list, enfleurage..

77

appropriation for lighting navigable chan-

nel ...

754

for soap making, wire drawing, or stuffing

or dressing leather...

76

Grand Marais, Mich.,

Grease-Proof Paper,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor of

duty on..

62

224

refuge...

654, 946 Greases,

Grand Marais, Minn.,

duty on, not specially provided for....

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657

soluble, not specially provided for............

14

Grand Rapids, Mich.,

Great Britain (see also Canada),

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent..

207,889

terms of court at..

1115

appropriation for ambassador to..
for secretary ofembassy for second secretary ..

337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028

INDEX.

xcix

Great Britain- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for third secretary ...... 338, 1028

for Canadian joint high commission

343

for Alaskaand Canada boundary line. 343, 1033

for marking Canadian boundary.. 344, 1033

for Canadian fisheries commission... 344, 1033

for expenses, arbitrating boundary in

Passamaquoddy Bay.

344

for arbitrating North Atlantic fisheries

with ...

765

for expenses Canadian boundary waters

commission..

766, 1364

deficiency appropriation for joint commis-

sion on use of Saint John River.. 203, 1290 cooperation of, in improving Saint Croix

River, Me., to be requested...

631

expenses for marking boundary line in

Passamaquoddy Bay, to be paid from

appropriation for arbitration com-

mission....

775

Great Falls, Mont.,

appropriation for public building.

705; 1372

limit ofcost increased, public building.... 678

terms of court at..

1118

Great Kanawha River,

appropriation for lighting.

754

Great Kills Harbor, N. Y., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673
Great Lakes,

appropriation for surveys, etc., by engineer

officers ..

730, 1407

for lighting channels in.

755

for expenses of joint commission on

boundary waters...

766, 1364

Great Lakes Naval Hospital,

appropriation for completion of buildings. 618

for maintenance....

609, 1269

deficiency appropriation for......

792

Great Northern Development Company,

may dam Mississippi River, Coon Creek

Rapids, Minn.

893

Great Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.............

643

Great Salt Pond, Block Island, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of..

632

Great Sodus Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor 634, 935 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673 Great South Bay, N. Y., appropriation for improvement ofharbor.. 634 Great Western Land Company,

maybridgeBlackRiverat Poplar Bluff, Mo. 907 Greece and Montenegro, ·

appropriation for minister to.......... 337, 1027

for secretary of legation...... .... 338, 1028

Greeley-Arizona Irrigation Company,

may dam Colorado River at Head Gate

Rock near Parker, Ariz...............

1081

Greeley, Colo.,

construction of public building, author-

ized at..

681

Green Bay, Wis., terms of court at.

656, 1129

Green, H. C.,

deficiency appropriation for refund of per-

mits, D. C......

1299

Green, Harvey S., and Edward A. Smith,

may dam Rock River, Lyndon, III..

920

Green River, Ky.,

bridge authorized across, at Davis Ferry.. 852 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

for diverting Mud River.....

955

Green River, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building.................. 1372

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized..

693

Greene, Edward Forbes,

Page.

may be appointed lieutenant, Navy,

retired ...

905

Greene, Major General Nathanael, appropriation authorized for monument to commemorate victory of Continental troops at Guilford Court House under 899

Greeneville, Tenn.,

terms of court at.

1124

Greenfield, Mass.,

appropriation for public building..

1372

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

685

Greenhouse Stock,

duty on, not specially provided for....... 37

Greensboro, N. C., terms of court at .....

186, 1120

Greensburg, Pa., appropriation for public building...... 705,1372
Greenville, N. C.,

construction of public building authorized

at

682

Greenville, S. C.,

terms of court at.....

1123

Greenwich, Conn. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor 633, 934

Greenwood, Charles S.,

deficiency appropriation for............................

1319

Greenwood, Miss.,

appropriation for public building...... 705, 1372

Grenada, Miss.,

appropriation for public building...

1372

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized .

686

Griffin, Ga.,

appropriation for public building......

1372

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677

Griggs, J. M., late a Representativein Congress, deficiency appropriation for widow of..... 805
Grindstones,

duty on..

21

Grinnell, Iowa, appropriation for public building........ 1372

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

689

Grit,

duty on iron or steel, for abrasives.......

24

Gross-Almerode Glass-Pot Clay,

on free list...

74 .

Ground beans,

duty on..

38

Growers ofLeaf Tobacco,

no restrictions on, selling their own leaf

tobacco....

111

Guadeloupe River, Tex., preliminary examination, to be made of... 955
Guam,

appropriation for agricultural experiment

station

438, 1262

for care oflepers, etc., naval station.. 617, 1267

for public works, naval station.................. 793, 1276

customs tariff schedules not applicable to. 11

merchandise for residents of, may be car-

ried on Army transports........ 256, 1051

Guano,

on free list..

76

Guantanamo, Cuba,

appropriation for repair installation, naval

station.....

1275

public works, naval magazine...

1277

Guatemala,

appropriation for minister to......

337, 1027

for secretary of legation....

337, 1028

Guerrier, S. G.,

may bridge Missouri River, Atchison,

Kans....

905

INDEX .

Guilford Battle Ground Compan

Page.

duties of, connected with me al monu-

ment to Gen. Greene and Con-

tinental Army...

899

Guilford Court House Battlefield, N. C.,

appropriation authorized for monument to

commemorate Revolutionary vic-

tory at, by forces under Maj. Gen.

Greene .

899

appropriation for erection of battle monu-

ment .

1402

Gulfof Mexico, etc.,

appropriation for surveys of coasts of... 756, 1432

construction of wharves, etc., in, adjacent

to Dauphin Island, authorized...

869

marine biological station authorized on

Florida coast of.....

964

Gulfport, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor.

646

for anchorage basin ; operation of dredge. 942

transfer of dredge "Barnard "

942

for public building....

705

Gum Substitute,

83 222

duty on..

39

Gums and Gum Resins,

duty on..

13

on free list, crude, drugs, not specially

provided for..

75

copal, crude..

72

kauri, crude..

72

Gun and Mortar Batteries,

appropriation for electric plants for.... 596, 1341 for supplies, etc., Philippine Islands.... 598
Gun-Barrel Molds,

duty on steel, not in bars...

23

Gun Blocks, Wood,

on free list, rough hewn, etc. , not specially

provided for....

81

Gun Metal,

duty onjewelry articles of...

67

Gun Wads,

duty on.

67

Gunboat, Navy,

construction of one, authorized; cost..... 1287

Gunboat, River,

construction of one, authorized ; cost ...... 1287

Gunnery Exercises, Navy,

appropriation for prizes, targets, etc ... 608, 1268

deficiency appropriation for....

221, 1322

Gunnison, Colo.,

granted lands for public park...

461

Gunnison National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of..427, 1248

Gunny Cloth,

duty on cotton bagging ..................

51

Gunpowder,

duty on..

66

Gut,

on free list, unmanufactured, cat..

74

whip ..

74

worm

74

Guthrie, Okla.,

appropriation for public building at.

1372

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized .

680

terms of court at.

1122

Gutta-Percha,

duty on manufactures of, not specially

provided for.....................

70

on free list, crude...

76

Guyandot River, W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 652

Gypsum,

duty on.

18

H.

Habana, Cuba,

Pago.

raising of wreck of "Maine," etc. , directed 353

appropriation for expenses..

353, 1407

deficiency appropriation for expenses... 789 Hackensack, N. J.,

appropriation for public building..

1372

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

690

Hackensack River, N. J.,

construction of canal´ authorized from

Berrys Creek to ..

1082

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Hacker, Edwin M.,

restored to place on list of passed assistant

paymasters..

1080

Hackney, Leonard J., and Frank L. Littleton,

may bridge Wabash River, Mount Carmel,

Ill.

300

Hague, The,

appropriation for annual contribution to

permanent court of arbitrationat. 342, 1032

for delegates, etc., to International Con-

gress onAlcoholism at.

1034

for participating in International Con-

2227

gress on Letters of Exchange, meeting

at..

1364

Hair,

duty on, pencils...

65

curled, for beds and mattresses...

human, clean or drawn.

67

manufactures of..

67

on free list, unmanufactured animal, not

specially provided for.

76

raw, uncleaned, human....

76

Hair, Animal,

fabrics of, etc. , classified as manufactures

of wool.

**22

Hair, Camel, etc.,
classification of, under Tarifi Act......................... Hair Press Cloth,

duty on.. Hair Seating,

duty on. Hair Wood,

on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrellas,

canes, etc...

Haircloth,

duty on....

67

Hairpins,

duty on.

31

Haiti,

appropriation for minister to........... 337, 1027 Hales Bar, Tennessee River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 652, 730

Halibut,

duty on.

37

Hall ofthe House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for reconstructing, etc..

1444

commission continued .....

1444

Hallowell, Me.,

appropriation for public building.

1372

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

689

Ham, Captain S. V.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

778

Hammersley Inlet, Wash., appropriation for improvement of........ 665

Hamilton County, Tenn.,

may bridge Tennessee River, Chattanooga. 908

Chattanooga to Hill City

908

Hammers,

duty on, blacksmith's iron or steel

25

tuning...

70

INDEX .

ci

Hammer Molds, Steel,
duty on. Hammond, Ind.,
bridge_authorized across River at...
terms of court at...

Grand

Calumet

Page. 23
293 1111

Hammond, La.,

appropriation for public building....

1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

689

Hampton Roads, Va., invitation to be extended for assembling and review of fleets at, on the way to opening of Panama Canal, etc...... 1239

Hampton, Va.,

appropriation for Indian school .................. 286, 1074

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers'

Home..

773, 1410

for public building...

1373

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home....

211

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

688

Hams,

duty on.

38

Hand Brakes, Railway,

cars to be equipped with.

298

special provisions for cars with long com-

modities....

298

Hand Holds, Railway,

cars to be equipped with secure, on lad-

ders....

298

Handkerchiefs,

duty on, cotton...

46

embroidered, cotton, flax, etc..

50

flax, hemp, or ramie.

51

lace, cotton, flax, etc..

50

silk..

59

Handle Bolts, Wood,

on free list, not specially provided for..... 81

Handling Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce ................

545

Hanford, Cal.,

appropriation for public building..

1373

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

684

·Hangings, Paper,

duty on.

63

Hankinson, J. L. , N. B. Dial, and Associates, may dam Savannah River at mouth of
Stevens Creek, S. C. and Ga........ 180

Hannibal, Mo.,

terms of court at.

1117

Hanover, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.

1373

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

687

Harbor Beach, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge, Lake Huron......

654

Harbor Island, Tex.,

appropriation for construction of deep-

water port at..

943

Harbor Patrol, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.

400, 991

Harbors (see also River and Harbor Improve-

ments),

appropriationforboatsfor, Armyservice. 256, 1051

for searchlights for defense of..

596, 1341

for searchlights for defense of, Philippine

Islands......

598

for searchlights for defense of, Hawaii... 1343

unexpended balances for essential work on,

not to be covered in..

182

Hard Rubber,

Page..

duty on manufactures of, not specially

provided for....

70

Harlem River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 635, 935

Harness,

duty on, leather...

69

made of hides entitled to free entry.... 68

Harney County, Oreg., appropriation for surveying township in... 741

Harney National Forest, S. ak., appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of.... 1249

Harper, J. Henry, ·

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ment of United States court to, as

trustee ..

128

Harris County Houston Ship Channel Navi-

gation District, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of Houston

Ship Channel dependent on contri-

bution by..

649

Harrisburg, Ill.,

construction of public building author-

ized at..

681

Harrisburg, Pa.,

appropriation for public building..

1373

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized...

680

terms of court at......

1123

Harrison, Ark.,

terms of court at..

1107

Harrisonburg, Va.,

terms of court at.

1128

Harrisonville, N. J., appropriation for road to Fort Mott and

Finns Point National Cemetery.... 350

Harrows,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty....

71

Hart, Captain V. K.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

778

Hartford, Conn.,

terms of court at.

1108

Hartzenstein, Samuel L.,

may dam Saint Joseph River, Mottville,

Mich..

904

Harvard Street NW., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extend-

ing .

783

Harvesters,

duty on, admitted free from country not

imposing duty......

71

Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kans.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 275, 1064 Hassocks,

duty on woolen.....

55

Hastings, Nebr., terms of court at.
Hat Pins,

294, 1118

duty on.. Hatbands,
duty on silk...... Hats,
duty on fur... straw, etc..
Hatters' Irons, duty on cast-iron.

Hatters' Plush,

duty on.

Hattiesburg, Miss.,

appropriation for public building....

705

Havre, Mont., land district established; office ; boun-

daries......

192

52 27832

cii

INDEX .

Hawaii (see also Hawaii, Government in), Page.

appropriation forsalaries, governmentin. 500,1203

for judges, circuit courts.

500, 1203

for contingent expenses .

500, 1203

for legislative.expenses..

501

no pay for extra session..

501

Hawaii, Government in- Continued. public lands, authority of commissioner of lands over all..
status of exchanged lands....
managementofforest reserves, etc. general duties of commissioner..

Page.
447 447 447 447

for salaries, district court officials.... 529, 1233

for relief of shipwrecked American sea-

men ..

346, 1036

disqualifications of judges and jurors ex-

tended ...

447

additional causes.

447

for mail equipments for .

362, 1334 public property transferred to Terri-

for weather service expenses in.... 418, 1237

tory..

447

for agricultural experiment stations.. 438, 1262

status of restored property.

447

for naval station, Pearl Harbor ...... 616, 1276

title to propertyfor public uses

447

for leprosy hospital, maintenance; in-

transfers to political subdivisions..

447

vestigations ..

717, 1394 pay ofterritorialofficers increased..

448

for quarantine system expenses.

717, 1394 status of naturalization records, certificates,

for ethnological researches among na-

etc., priorto June 29, 1906...

448

tives of.

718 , 1395 | Hay,

for quarters, seacoast artillery in . 721, 1398 duty on..

36

for quarters, etc., cavalry post in...

721 Hay Knives,

for lighting waters of....

754 duty.on...

27

for seacoast batteries.. for harbor searchlights ..

1343 Hayden National Forest, Wyo. and Colo., 1343 appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

for supplies, etc., gun and mortar bat-

Hayward, Wis.,

teries..

1343 appropriation for Indian school........ 287, 1076

deficiency appropriation for naval station,

Hazel, Daniel,

Pearl Harbor.

211 title, etc., of United States to claim of,

for increase of salaries, territorial officers. 782

New Madrid location, Mo., relin-

for leprosy hospital maintenance..

808

quished....

923

approval of legislative charter for railroad

Hazing, Military Academy,

to W. A. Wall .

845 regulations modified, duty of superin-

assigned to ninth judicial circuit...

1131

tendent to prescribe..

323

cases in which writs of error and appeals

court-martial trials authorized; effect of

are allowed to Supreme Court from

dismissal....

324

supreme court of.

1158 disposal of pending cases....

324

included in census of 1910 ..

1 Head Nets,

prohibition of intoxicants to be submitted

duty on, woolen................

54

to special election....
appropriation for expenses . Hawaii, Government in,

878 Head Tax,

878 appropriation for refund of, erroneously

collected..

764, 1442

all general laws of United States made ap-

Heading Blocks,

plicable.to ..

443 duty on, rough hewn, etc

33

territorial provisions excepted.

443 Heading Bolts,

pay of members of legislature increased;

duty on, rough hewn, etc

33

restriction.....

444 Headstones for Soldiers' Graves,

legislature to make appropriations .... contracting indebtedness by, restricted . loans authorized for public purposes; limit..
upon public domain forbidden .

444 appropriation for........

722, 1399

444 deficiency appropriation for.......

220,

225, 809, 1321, 1326

444 Healds,

444 duty on, cotton, etc.

48

term for paying extended.....

444 Health Department, D. C.,

maycondemn property forpublic uses. 444 appropriation for health officer, inspectors,

public lands, limitation on issue of certifi-

etc....

401, 992

cates, leases, and agreements.....

444

citizenship required..

444

transfers to corporations or aliens, etc.,

restricted ..

445

inheritances or tenancies in common

excepted ....

445

forfeiture for violations, etc ..

445

inspection of live stock.

993

for preventing contagious diseases, etc. 402, 993

for disinfecting service..

402, 993

forsanitary emergency fund ..

402, 993

for expenses, food, etc. , adulterations . 402, 993

for bacteriological laboratory..

993

for contingent expenses...

402, 993

proceedings to purchase lots, etc.. preference to present residents lessees excluded
patents to religious organizations. limit of acreage and value.....

445

for inspecting dairy farms, etc ..

402, 994

445

for contagious diseases isolating wards. 403, 994

445

for public crematory..

403, 994

445

for pound and stable.........

994

446

for destruction of rats..

994

leases of agricultural, etc., lands; ap-

proval by board.

446

sales of resident lots; limit.

446

deficiency appropriation for sanitary emer-

gency fund..

785

for disinfecting service....

1297

for public utilities, etc., approval by

for milkinspection, etc...

1297

board....

446 Health, International Office ofPublic,

agricultural lands, opening to home-

appropriation for quota..

344

stead entry...

446 Health Officer, D. C.,

harvestinggrowing crops...

446 appropriation for, assistant, deputy, etc .. 401, 992

certificates; area limited ; expenses.. pastoral lands included ...
privileges of resident owners....

446 Hearings in Land Entries, 446 appropriation for expenses.. 447 deficiency appropriation for....

740, 1415 810, 1323

INDEX .

ciii

 888 50 580

Heating Apparatus, Public Buildings (see Page. | Herring Oil,

Mechanical Equipment for Public

duty on..

Page. 14

Buildings).

Herrings,

Heating, Lighting, and Power Plant for Capi-

duty on..

37

tol, etc., D. C.,

Hiawatha, Kans.,

to be known as Capítol power plant...... 1414 appropriation for public building..

1373

Heddles or Healds, Wire, duty on...

acquiring site for public building at, au-

24

thorized..

689

Heidl, Captain Grayson V.,

Hickory, N. C.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

construction of public building authorized

counts...

778

at..

682

Height ofBuildings, D. C.,

Hide Cuttings,

regulations for...

452 on free list, raw.

76

completion of church above limit per-

Hide Rope,

mitted..

891 on free list...

76

Helena, Ark., terms of court at......

Hides, 1107 census inquiries of all, produced from ani-

Helena, Mont., appropriation forassay office at................. 499, 1201

mals slaughtered for food or other-

wise....

228

terms of court at.

1118 on free list, not specially provided for..... 79

Helena National Forest, Mont.,

Hides of Cattle,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249 on free list..

68

HellGate, N. Y.,

reduction of duty on grain, buff, and split

appropriations for removing obstructions

leather, boots and shoes, saddlery,

in..

635, 935

etc., made of, and calfskins ...

68

HellGate, Wash.,

Hides of Neat Cattle,

bridge authorized across Columbia River,

importation of, forbidden........

86

at..

415

suspended from countries ' not affected

Hemlock Bark, duty on extract of......
Hemp, duty on, and tow of... cables and cordage.
carpets, mats, or rugs.. hackled, "line of hemp " hose, hydraulic orflume... handkerchiefs ...
manila, braids, laces, etc.. hats, bonnets, and hoods..

by contagious diseases......

87

14

notification by Secretary of the

Treasury...

87

49

punishment for...

87

49 High-ProofSpirits,

49 withdrawal allowed in tanks, etc., from

49

distilleries free of tax for Govern-

49

ment use....

1014

51 Highlanding, Minn., Board of Supervisors

of

65 may bridge Red Lake River........

958

manufactures of, not specially provided for....
shirting cloth...... threads, twines, or cords...
woven articles, not specially provided for.....

Highway Bridge, D. C.,

51 appropriation for operating expenses.... 387, 978

51 Highways System, D. C., Permanent, 49 changes authorized in northern section.... 241
northwest section, north of Klingle Road 201

51

north of Observatory Circle...

197

woven fabrics, not specially provided

condemning lands to extend streets through

for......

51

reserved subdivisions; authorized... 268

yarns..

49 portion of Jefferson Street NW., stricken

Hemp, and Manufactures of

from plan of....

240

Schedule J, Tariff of 1909.

48 changes authorized in northwest sec-

Hemp, New Zealand,

tion..

924

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory

new plan for section adjoining Zoological

duty..

73

Park...

978

Hempseed,

extension ofLanier Place and Eighteenth

duty on, oil.......

14

Street .

978

on free list...

79

appropriation for expenses condemn-

Hempstead, N.

ing lands, etc., for...

979

appropriation for improvement of har-

Hill City, Minn.,

bor...

634, 935 bridge across Mississippi River at, legalized 193

Henderson, John B.,

Hill City, Tenn.,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

bridge authorized across Tennessee River

sonian Institution....

874

from Chattanooga , to.........

908

Henderson, John B., jr.,

Hill, J. S.,

appointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

deficiency appropriation for reimbursement 1314

sonian Institution....

14, 58 Hillis, R. H.,

Hendersonville, N. C., appropriation for public building.

deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127 1373 Hillsboro Bay, Fla.,

acquiring site and erecting public building at, authorized..
"Hercules," Floating Crane,
deficiency appropriation for raising........................ Herbs,
duty on, drugs... on free list, crude, drugs, not specially pro-
vided for...

appropriation for improvement of; con-

686

tracts...

644, 941

Hillsboro River, Fla.,

793 appropriation for improvement of......... 645

Hillsboro, Tex.,

13 appropriation for public building....

1373

Hillsdale, Mich.,

75 appropriation for public building........................ 1373

civ

INDEX .

Hilo, Hawaii,

Page. Holy Cross National Forest, Colo.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts.... resurvey authorized .

666, 952 952

for public building..

1373

employment of special architect, etc.. 1373

division of block reserved for building site. 696

half reserved for building...

696

remainder restored as public land..

696

conditions.

696

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Homefor Aged and Infirm, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses.. 407, 998

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses....

786, 1298

for water supply..

1298

Homefor Incurables, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients....

408, 999

Hinde, Robert E.,
deficiency appropriation for burial expenses, etc..
Hinge Blanks, duty on iron or steel..

Homeopathic Hospital, D. C., National,

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

781

tients.....

408, 999

Homer, Minn.,

25 appropriation for fish-cultural station up-

Hinges, duty on iron or steel..
Historical Association, American,

per Mississippi River Valley, equip-

25

ment, etc..

763, 1440

Homestead Entries,

appropriation for printing and binding

allowed in Chippewa pine timber lands,

annual report.

768, 1447

unsold ....

862

Historical Places, D. C.,

appropriation for erection, etc. , tablets for

marking...

382, 974

Hiwassee River, Va. and Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of....

652

bridge authorized across at Charleston and

Calhoun, Tenn......

187

Hoarhound Seed,

payment for timber in addition to price

for lands..

862

allowed settlers on lands excluded from

Refugio Colony grant, N. Mex.... 896

second, allowed if former lost, etc....

896

requirements; parties excluded ..

896

allowed widow, etc., of alien becoming

insane before completing his nat-

on free list..

79

uralization..

929

Hob Nails,

duty on..

28

Hogs,

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced .....

228

duty on..

35

Hogsheads,

duty on empty.......

33

Holdrege, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building....

1373

Holidays, Government Printing Office,

appropriation for pay of employees for. 767, 1445

part of appropriation for, 1911, made avail-

able for leaves of absence .....

1448

Holland, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 654,946

for public building...

1373

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized.......

686

assignment of completed, in reclamation

projects permitted .

592

canceled, etc., solely because of erroneous allowance of withdrawals for na-

tional forests, may be reinstated, etc. 1084

rights of successful contestants....

1084

full time of residence allowed for ejected,

Wisconsin Central Railroad grant... 885

time for second entries extended........

885

granted David Eddington; coal reserved.. 1349

lands relinquished under reclamation act

open to..

918

on lands temporarily withdrawn for power

sites, etc., not impaired..

848

opening to, unallotted, etc., lands, Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, N.

Dak...

457

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak.. 440 Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn.,

Hollands, Window, duty on cotton..
Hollow Ware,
duty on cast-iron, coated, tinned, etc.... Hollow Ware, Iron or Steel Enameled, etc.,
duty on utensils of, for table, kitchen, and hospitals .
Holley, John M.,

undisposed of ceded lands...

913

46

Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak... 450

provisions for, in Hawaii...

446

26 Homestead Entries on Irrigation Projects,

leaves of absence allowed until water is

furnished ..

864

28

not deducted from required time of resi-

dence...

864

reappointed on Board of Managers Volun-

teer Soldiers' Home ...

876

Holloway, J. B., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318
Holly Springs, Miss., appropriation for public building....... 1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

690

Homestead, Pa.,
appropriation for public building.......................... 1373 Homestead Settlers,
allowed additional time to establish resi-
dence, etc., in certain cases...... 189,903 leave of absence for three months. 189, 904 allowed commutation on lands of ceded
Uintahlands, Utah, deprived bylack

Hollywood Cemetery, Richmond, Va.,

ofwaterfrom completing residence.. 1074

monument authorized over grave of Presi-

in former Siletz Indian Reservation, Oreg. ,

dent Tyler in ..

1345

may receive patents; conditions.... 1356

Holmes River, Fla.,

Homesteads,

appropriation for improvement of...... 645, 941 enlarged, allowed of arid, etc., lands in

Holston River,

Idaho.......

531

time extended for bridging, Va. and Tenn. 330 entries of surface of coal lands for, subject

Holton, Kans.,

to mining rights, permitted....

583

appropriation for public building.....

1373 Honduras,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

appropriationfor minister to......

thorized ..

689

for secretary of legation.

337, 1027 337, 1028

INDEX.

CV

Hones, on free list

Page. 76

Honey,

duty on..

36

Honolulu, Hawaii,

appropriation for improvement of harbor..

for public building...

1373

acquiring land for extending public build-

ing at, authorized...

Hoods,

duty on fur...

horsehair.

straw, etc....

64

Hoofs,

on free list, unmanufactured.................... Hooks,
duty on fish..... Hooks and Eyes,

duty on.... Hoop Iron or Steel,
duty on.. cotton ties........

punched, etc...

22

Hooper, Lieutenant E. L.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts ..

778

Hop Poles, Wood, on free list, not specially provided for..... 81

Hop Roots,

on free list, for cultivation......

76

Hope and Help Mission, D. C.,

appropriation for care of women and chil-

dren..

410, 1002

Hopkinsville, Ky.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

Hops,

duty on..

36

extract of.......

36

lupulin..

36

Hoquiam River, Wash., preliminary examination of, to be made.... 676

Horn,

duty on, combs..............

70

manufactures of, not specially provided

for...

69

Horn Island Pass, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 647, 942

Hornell, N. Y.,

use of unexpended balance for public

buildingsite at, forsite at Waterloo.. 707

Horns,

on free list, and parts of, unmanufactured.. 76

Horry County, S. C., may bridge Waccamaw River at Star Bluff

and Conway.

179

time extended for bridging Waccamaw

River....

906

Horse, Special Report on Diseases ofthe,

printing of revised edition ordered ; distri-

bution ...

1459

Horsehair, Imitation,

duty on articles or fabrics made of.............

60

yarns, threads, or filaments......

60

Horsehair, Real, dutyon, braids, laces, etc., for millinery...... 64

on free list, unmanufactured, not specially

provided for......

76

Horserakes,

dutyon; admitted free from country not im-

posing duty on...................

71

Horses,

duty on...

35

regulations to be made for free entry of,

strayingacross frontier, etc............

72

2445 8888888

**88*252

Horses, Army,

Page.

appropriation for pay to officers furnishing

their own..

250, 1043

forexpenditures for..... for purchase...

254, 1048 254, 1049

land in Virginia for assembling, etc.,

purchased for mounted service .... 1049

limit; contracts; purchases at posts. 254, 1049

standard required...

254, 1049

detachment of enlisted men at re-

mount depots; restriction..

1049

purchase from officers ordered to dis-

tant stations.............

254

deficiency appropriation for...

220

for, lost inthe military service..

220

officers separated from authorized number

of, not deprived of forage, etc...

252

suspensions for transportation of officers'

authorized, for 1909 and 1910, re-

moved..

1053

reimbursements for payments made on

account of..

1053

Horseshoe Nails,

duty on....

28

Horseshoers, Army,

designation and pay established for cav-

alry.

245

for field artillery...

245

Horseshoes,

duty on wrought iron or steel....

28

Horticultural Associations,

exempt from corporation tax......

113

Horton, R. B.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1318

Hose,

duty on flexible metal not specially pro-

vided for....

26

Hose and Half-Hose,

duty on, cotton .

47

not specially provided for............

47

Hose, Hydraulic of Flume,

duty on, cotton, flax, hemp, ramie, or

jute.....

49

Hospital Corps, Army,

appropriation for pay of enlisted men, lon-

gevity... service school detachment..

246, 1040 1040

Hospital Matrons, Army, appropriation forpay..

249, 1042

Hospital Stewards, Army,

appropriation for quarters for............................ 258, 1053

Hospital Utensils,

duty on iron or steel enameled, etc. , hol-

low ware.

28

Hospitals, Army,

appropriation for construction and repair

of post ....

258, 1053

for Hot Springs, Ark .

258

for Fort Missoula, Mont..

258

for Fort H. G. Wright, N. Y...

258

for Fort George Wright, Wash .

258

for Walter Reed General Hospital,

D.C ...

258

deficiency appropriation for construction

and repair.

220, 789, 809

Hot Springs, Ark.,

land granted for public street to..

844

right to occupy two lots, granted Hot Springs Masonic Lodge; conditions. 906

Hot Springs Army and Navy Hospital, Ark.,

appropriation for construction and re-

pair......

258, 1053

for medical supplies..........

259, 1054

for burial in national cemetery, Little

Rock, of patients dying in ...... 724, 1400

cvi

INDEX .

Hot Springs Lodge ofMasons,

Page.

granted exclusive use of two lots, Hot

Springs, Ark., for building; condi-

tions ...

906

lease of hot water .

906

Hot Springs Reservation, Ark.,

free use of Government bathhouse re-

stricted ..

1015

punishment for false oath to obtain .

1015

land granted to Hot Springs for public

street ..

844

right of way granted through, forstreet rail-

way .

235

United States commissioners, Arkansas

eastern district, given jurisdiction

overall violations of regulations gov-

erning.

1086

Hot Springs, S. Dak.,

appropriation for expenses, sanitarium Volunteer Soldiers' Home ......... 735, 1412

Hot Springs Street Railway Company,

granted right of way through Hot Springs

Reservation, Ark..

235

Houghton, Alice V.,

payment of expenses of hospital and sur-

gical treatment of, injured at Census

Office ..

1313

salary to continue for one year. .....

1313

Housatonic River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of ......

633

House Furniture,

duty on wood .

34

House ofDetention, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses .

400, 991

House of Representatives,

appropriation for compensation of Mem-

bers, Delegates, and Resident Com-

missioners ..

473, 1175

for mileage .

473, 1176

for Speaker's office; Digest of Rules.. 473, 1176

for Chaplain .

473, 1176

for Clerk of the House, clerks, etc ... 473, 1176

for chiefengineer, assistants, etc..... 474, 1177

for clerks, messengers, and janitors to

committees, annual.

474,'1177

for janitors to committees..

475, 1177

for clerks to committees, session.. 475, 1178

for Sergeant-at-Arms, deputy, etc... 475, 1178

for police force, House Office Building 476, 1178

for Doorkeeper, assistant, etc.... 476, 1178

messengers, laborers, etc..

476, 1178

superintendent folding room, etc.. 476 1178

pages .

183, 476, 1179

superintendent document room,etc. 476, 1179

for minority employees ..

477, 1179

forspecial employees..

477, 1179

for Postmaster, assistant, etc.... 183, 477 , 1180

horses and mail wagons..

477, 1180

for official reporters....

477, 1180

forstenographers to committees . 477, 1180 """duringthesession " to mean 117 days. 478 'during the session " to mean 210 days. 1180

for clerk hire, Members, Delegates, and

Resident Commissioners ...

478, 1180

for contingent expenses, materials for

folding.. for fuel and oil ..

478, 1180 478, 1180

available for power plant .

1180

for furniture and repairs.

478, 1180

for packing boxes ..

478, 1180

for miscellaneous items .

478, 1180

for expenses, special and select commit-

tees

478, 1180

for stationery . for postage stamps. . for stationery for Members, etc ..

478, 1181 478, 1181
183

House ofRepresentatives-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for telephone operators.... 183 for additional messenger in post-office... 183

for folding speeches ..

183

for maintenance House Office Building.. 766

for printing and binding..

768, 1446

for refrigerating apparatus, cooling ofair,

etc ..

1443

for subway transportation to House

Office Building.

1443

railroad siding to power plant contin-

ued ...

1443

for reconstructing Hall of.

1444

deficiency appropriation for equipping

library in Office Building..

125

for operating elevators...

125

for extra month's pay to employees .. 127,

804, 1317

for J. C. Stewart

127, 806, 1319

forpayto widow ofFrancis W. Cushman . 128

D. A. De Armond..

805

J. M. Griggs.. J. B. Perkins . W. P. Brownlow .

805 805 1317

S. L. Gilmore..

1317

C. Q. Tirrell..

1317

W. W. Foulkrod....

1317

Joel Cook.....

131,7

for daughter of Representative W. C.

Lovering..

805

for heirs of Amos L. Allen .

1317

for automobile for Speaker..

128

for Herbert D. Brown .

128

for clerks committees on Expenditures

Navy Department, and Commerce

and Labor .

128

for equipping folding room, Office Build-

ing...

128

for removing documents, etc., to folding

room, Office Building .

128

for pages, messengers, etc.

128

forfoldingspeeches. 128, 217, 805, 806, 880, 1318 for official reporters and stenographers .. 128,

for materials for folding..

805, 1317 217

for miscellaneous items.. for fuel and oil...

223, 881, 891 , 1317 805, 1317

for stationery.

805

for contested-election expenses...... 806, 1317

for clerkto Committee on Rules......

805

janitor....

805

for compiling contested-election cases... 805

for L. W. Busbey.

805

for assistant clerk, Committee on

Claims ..

805

for Florence A. Donnelley . for Elizabeth Deards..

805, 1318 805

for W. H. Estey . for John J. Cameron . for George Gilbert. for Charles L. Williams.
for J. C. Stewart..

805, 1319 806, 1318
806 806, 1318 806, 1319

for janitor, Committee on Coinage,

Weights, and Measures..

806

for assistant clerk, Committee on Foreign

Affairs..

806

for clerk, Committee on Expenditures in

Navy Department..

806

for Edwin Miller.....

806

for printing and binding..

806

forspecial and select committees. 881, 891, 1317

for joint commission on bonding com-

panies...

1317

for expert, clerical and stenographic
services, approved by Representative Oscar W. Underwood ........... 1317

INDEX .

cvii

House ofRepresentatives Continued. deficiency appropriation for widow of A. C. Welch..
for messengers in post office....... forcompiling lawa relating to employees,
contingent fund, etc.. for RobertW. Dyer. for GeorgeJennison . for R. B. Horton .. for M. C. Shield.

Page.
1318 1318
1318 1318 1318 1318 1318

for George B. Serenbetz, J. B. Holloway,

and Marie G. Potter..

1318

forJames A. Gassaway.

1318

forJoseph B. Sparks.

1318

for E. R. Ernst.

1318

for Edwin L. Williams.

1318

for W. S. Topping..

1318

for George F. Evers.

1318

for Marshall Pickering .

1318

for Dio W. Dunham.

1319

for N. T. Hynson...

1319

for Edward S. Glavis..

1319

for Charles S. Greenwood..

1319

coal for central heating, lighting, and

power plant to be paid for from

appropriations for fuel and oil for

Senate and.

891

contingent fund vouchers approved by Committee on Accounts conclusive

upon all officers, etc..

1318

employees to be paid December, 1909,

salaries, December 20..

871

December, 1910, salaries, December 21 . 1453

to receive June, 1910, salaries on day of

adjournment...

886

fiveMembers to be appointed on joint com-

mitteeto investigate Alaskan affairs. 1444

joint commission on rates of bonding com-

panies, continued...

804

joint committee of Senate and, to investi-

gate Interior Department and Forest

Service.

871

Member elected in Arizona to be certified

to....

578

Members elected in New Mexico to be cer-

tified to....

567

tariffprinting and binding may be done at Government Printing Office on

requisition of Representative Oscar

W. Underwood...

1317

three Members to be appointed on commis-

sion to Mexican centennial celebra-

tion..

882

three Members of the Sixty-second Con-

gress to be appointed on Printing

Investigation Commission.

1444

twoMembers of, to serve on National Forest

Reservation Commission...

962

two Members to be appointed on commission to investigate employer'sliability and workman's compensation.. 884
House Office Building,

appropriation for elevator conductors for 474, 1177

for police force...

476, 1178

for removing patent models to subbase-

ment of Senate or...

516

for trees, etc., for grounds of.

726, 1403

for maintenance.... for gratings for area ways.

766, 1443 1443

for refrigerating apparatus ..

1443

for subway transportation to Capitol.... 1443

deficiency appropriation for equipping

library rooms in.

125

for equipping folding room in....

128

for removing documents, etc., to...

128

for laying sidewalks..

795

House Office Building-Continued.
deficiency appropriation for completing approachesto.....
for Elliott Woods, services .. for J. C. Courts, services as secretary to
'commission on..

Page.
795 1306
1307

Speaker to remain on commission until

successor is elected, etc ..

1306

Household Effects,

on freelist, ofpersons from foreign countries 74

Houston Ship Channel, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts; contribution by local organi-

zation required ..

649

Houston, Tex.,

terms of court at..

1127

Houston, William H.,

. deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

1307

Howard University, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance..

746, 1422

for expenses...

746, 1422

for medical department....

746, 1422

for heating plant, etc......

1423

deficiency appropriation for.....

1323

for power, etc., plant, for Freedmen's

Hospital and...

796

medical department salaries authorized

from appropriation..........

796

Howser, H.-R.,jr.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 804

Hubsfor Wheels,

duty on wood.......

33

Hudson River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbors

at Peekskill..

635,935

Rondout......

635, 935

Saugerties...........

635

Tarrytown..

635

for improvement of, and maintenance. 635,935

for lighting.....

754

for lightstation mouth ofRondout Creek. 1430

preliminary examination of, to be made

for increased depth...

673

New York City..

674

Ossining..

674

Albany

953

Rensselaer .

953

light and fog signal station authorized at

mouth of Rondout Creek...

535

Stony Point light-house reservation, im-

provements authorized..

535

Hugh MacRae and Company, may dam Savannah River at Cherokee

Shoals, S. C....

922

Hughes, Charles J., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation to pay to widow

of.

1314

Human Hair,

on free list, raw, uncleaned, and not drawn. 76 Humboldt Bay, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts...

661, 949

for improvement of, channel at Eureka. 949 coal shed on light-house wharf, authorized . 536 Humboldt National Forest, Nev.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Humboldt, Tenn.,

appropriation for public building....................... 1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

692

Hundley, Oscar R:,

deficiency appropriation for salary.....

125

Hungary (see Austria-Hungary).

Hunting Knives,

duty on..

27

cviii

INDEX .

Huntingdon, Pa.,

Page.

appropriation for public building..

1373

acquiringsite and erecting public building

at, authorized..........

687

Huntington, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.

1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

689

Huntington, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Huntington, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building.

1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

692

terms of court at..

1129

Hunts Point, N. Y., appropriation for light and fog signal sta-

tion ...

1431

light and fog signal authorized at.

.535

Huntsville, Ala.,

terms of court at.

1106

Huntsville, Tex.,

appropriation for public building..

1373

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

692

Huron, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 653

range lights authorized for harbor.......

536

Huron, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for public building..

1374

limit of cost increased , public building.. 679

Hyacinth Clumps,

duty on...

37

Hydraulic Cement,

duty on..

17

Hydraulic Hose,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc ........

49

2

Hydrochloric Acid,

on free list..

71

Hydrographic Office, Navy Department,

appropriation for engineers, draftsmen,

clerks, etc ..

507, 1209

for materials, etc ..

507, 1210

for lithographic press; folding machine.. 1210

for Pilot Chart...

508, 1210

for expenses, branch office ..

508, 1210

for employees, branch office..

508, 1210

for North Pacific Pilot Chart .

508, 1210

restriction, personal services, etc... 508, 1210

for printing and binding for..

768, 1446

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses.....

809

pilot charts to state that data is furnished

by Weather Bureau and .......

508

meteorological information for pilot charts

to be promptly sent by Weather

Bureau to...

508

detail of naval officers to, limited to two .. 508

Hygiene and Demography, International Con-

gress on,

appropriation for expenses, etc.

341 , 1034

invitation to States to participate in Fif-

teenth...

873

tobe held in United States in 1911 or 1912.. 87-1

Hygienic Laboratory, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance..

716, 1394

for grading, etc., retaining wall at................. 717

Hynson, N. T.,

deficiency appropriation for...

1319

I.

Ice,

on free list..

76

Ice and Snow, D. C.,

appropriation for removing from streets,

sidewalks, gutters, etc ..

389,980

Ice Gorges, Ohio River, appropriation for removing...
Ice Machines, Army,

Page. 873

sale of surplus product permitted; use of

proceeds ....

253, 1048

Ice Plants,

appropriation for State, War, and Navy

Department Building..

737

deficiency appropriation for Treasury De-

partment..

204

for Interior Department..

212

for National Museum ..

782

Ichthyol Oil,

on free list..

77

Icing Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce ..

545

Idaho,

appropriation for surveyor general, clerks,

etc.

517, 1220

for continuing surveys of public lands

in

741, 1417

deficiency appropriation for classifying,

etc., lands of Coeur d'Alene Reser-

vation..

213

for reimbursing, for advances for surveys

of public lands..

796, 1308

for surveying public lands in........... 1307

assigned to ninth judicial circuit..

1131

Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation, pay for

survey and allotment work..

797

creation or enlargement of national forests

in, forbidden, except by act of Con-

gress .

848

enlarged homesteads of nonirrigable, etc. ,

lands authorized in....

531

designation of lands to be made...

532

applications, fees, etc...

532

additions to incomplete regular home-

stead entries; limit.

532

additional proof of cultivation required . 532

regular homestead entries not affected.. 532

not allowed entrymen under this

act..

532

no commutations...

532

residence not required on lands without

water for domestic use ..

532

personal work necessary.

532

leaves of absence permitted .

532

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended ....

189, 903

leave of absence allowed .

189, 904

lands added to Pocatello National Forest

in...

919

Idaho and Washington Northern Railroad,

may bridge Pend d'Oreille River in Box

Canyon, Wash

179

Idaho Falls, Idaho,

appropriation for public building..

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building at, authorized ....
Idaho Judicial District,
counties composing northern division.. central division .. southern division.
terms ofcourt... divisions rearranged .
terms Boise City.. Coeur d'Alene City. Moscow .. Pocatello..

684
1109 1109 1109 1109 927 928 928 928 928

Idaho National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249 Idaho University,

deficiency appropriation for premium paid

on indemnity bond...

1295

INDEX .

cix

Idiots, Imbeciles, etc., Alien,

Page.

excluded admission..

263

Illinois,

appropriation for naval training station . 609, 1269

assigned to seventh judicial circuit..

1131

consent of Congress to agreement for juris-

diction of State laws over Lake

Michigan, by Wisconsin, Indiana,

Michigan and..

882

Illinois and Mississippi Canal,

appropriation for improvement of, raising

Aqueduct One, etc..

948

for lock in dam in Rock River.

658

Illinois Eastern Judicial District,

appropriation for stenographer.

1233

counties composing..

1110

terms of court..

1110

Illinois Northern Judicial District,

appropriation for clerk....
additional judge allowed for. counties composing eastern division..
western division.....

529, 1233 1087 1110 1110

terms of court...

1110

Illinois River, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of...

658

dredging Lake Depue.......

658

for lighting..

754

for waterway from Lockport, Ill., to

Mississippi River by Desplaines

River and...

659

board of engineers to report on advisa-

bility...

659

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Illinois Southern Judicial District,

counties composing northern division .

1110

southern division.

1110

terms of court.....

1110

Illustrations,

annual reports of government of District of

Columbia, not to use.

381

Imitation Precious Stones,

duty on...

68

Imitations ofBrandy, Spirits, or Wines,

duty on.

40

Immediate Transportation of Dutiable Goods,

invoices to be in quadruplicate..

91

privileges extended to Birmingham , Ala.,

delivery..

1086

Eastport, Idaho, entry...

467

New London, Conn., entry..

828

Immigrants,

on free list, professional books, tools of

trade, etc., of...

78

Immigration (see also Naturalization of

Aliens),

appropriation for medical inspection of

aliens ..

716, 1394

for all expenses enforcing laws regulat-

ing..

763, 1442

forpreventing unlawful entry of Chinese;

deporting, etc...

764, 1442

for refunding head tax..

764, 1442

credit for reimbursement of money

paid for detained aliens...... 764, 1442

for lease of office, Montreal, Canada....... 764

for Ellis Island station....

764

for water main and cable to "Pelican

Spit" station, Galveston, Tex...

764

forspecial examiners, etc., in naturaliza-

tion cases....

764, 1442

for additional allowances to clerks of

courts for clerical assistance in natu-

ralization cases ..

765, 1442

for witness fees to Austrian seamen ..... 765

deficiency appropriation for allowance for

clerical assistance to clerks of courts

in naturalization cases...

126, 1313

Immigration-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for expenses en-

forcing laws regulating.. for Chinese exclusion .

216, 800 224, 812, 1324

for equipping Angel Island, Cal. , station . 800 for allowance to clerks of courts in natu-

ralization cases

1313

for naturalization .

1324

citizenship certificates may be issued in

certain cases without proof of decla-

ration of intention.....

831

detailed estimate required for all objects of

expenditure relating to.....

764

Immigration Act Amendments,

aliens excluded admission, idiots; epilep-

tics; insane, etc.

263

paupers; persons with contagious dis-

eases; physically defective, etc..

263

felons; polygamists; anarchists, etc..

264

prostitutes; procurers, etc....

264

contract laborers; assisted immigrants,

etc ..

264

children unaccompanied by parents..

264

exceptions, purely political convicts... 264

assisted immigrants in transit...

264

skilled laborers, if similar class not ob-

tainable..

264

professionals; domestic servants, etc.. 264

importing aliens for prostitution or im-

moral use forbidden....

264

punishment for importing, harboring, etc.. 264

jurisdiction over offenses...

265

deportation of aliens engaged in prostitu-

tion, assisting, etc ...

265

punishment for attempt of deported alien

to return.....

265

return to country of origin after expira-

tion of sentence....

265

admission of evidence of husband or

wife in prosecutions under this act.. 265 Immigration and Naturalization Bureau, De-
partment of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner General,

assistant, clerks, etc....

527, 1230

for Naturalization Division .

527, 1230

for Information Division..

527, 1230

for Naturalization Division, special ex-

aminers, etc ..

764, 1442

deficiency appropriation for immigration

expenses...

800

for naturalization of aliens ..

812, 814

for paying State institutions for care, of

aliens to be deported ..

1312

for Division of Naturalization................................. 1313

Immigration Commission,

appropriation for printing publications of;

sale...

768

deficiency appropriation for expenses of;

restriction..

215

salaries of members to cease March 1,

1910 .....

215

finalreport tobe made December, 1910. 216

records to become part of files of Depart-

ment of Commerce and Labor....... 800

Immigration ofAliens,

jurisdiction of district courts under laws

regulating..

1093

Immigration Stations,

appropriation for Ellis Island, crematory,

etc ...

764

for Ellis Island, N, Y., new buildings,

etc.; sea wall, etc..

1441

for water main and electric cable to

"Pelican Spit," Galveston, Tex .... 764

for enlarging, equipping, New Orleans,

La......

1441

for constructing, Boston, Mass..

1441

CX

INDEX.

Immigration Stations- Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for Ellis Island,

N. Y., contagious hospital ..

126

for Ellis Island , N. Y ..

216, 801

for Angel Island, Cal ...

216, 800

for Boston, Mass., constructing.

800

acquiring site and erection of, authorized

at Baltimore, Md ...

685

exchange of site acquired for, Boston,

Mass.; additional cost..

702, 904

Philadelphia, Pa. , limit of cost increased

for pier, etc....

1442

Immoral Books, Pictures, etc.,

importation of, prohibited ..

86

entry forbidden; seizure, etc..

86

punishment for aiding, etc., by officials. 86

procedure for seizure, etc ..

86

Immoral Practices,

regulations of transportation of females in interstate and foreign commerce for. 825

Immunity, of pleadings, etc., as evidence in criminal

proceedings, etc., repealed ......................... 352

Imperial County, Cal.,

desert land entries in, may be completed byassignees in good faith; conditions. 867

bona fide holders of second entries con-

firmed; conditions....

867

holders of 320 acres excluded .

867

limit for agricultural lands not modified. 867

act applicable only to.......

867

Imperial Valley, Cal.,

appropriation for protecting property in, from overflow of Colorado River.... 883

Implements, on free list, professional, of immigrants.... 78

Importations,

prohibited, unless in American vessels, or

of country of production.....

87

penalty for violations....

87

not applicable to countries having no

similar provision..

87

Imported Materials,

drawbacks allowed on, used in manufacture

ofarticles exported ....

90

used in ships built for foreign account.. 90

Imported Merchandise,

customs administration regulating...

91

for articles made in bonded manufacturing

warehouses for export, exempt from

duty ......

89

Importer,

declaration to be made by, with invoice of

goods actually purchased.

93

not actually purchased.

93

punishment for false....

95

Imports, Classification of, appeals allowed only to Court of Customs

Appeals from decisions of Board of

General Appraisers as to.

1145

Imports, Duties on (see Tariff of 1909).

Imports into Philippine Islands,

provisions for duties on..

130

Incapacitated Persons, appropriations for salaries not available for

permanently..... Income Tax,

531, 1235

proposed amendment to the Constitution authorizing Congress to levy........... 184

Incomes ofCorporations, Net, provisions for special excise tax on................. 112

Incorporations, D. C., charter amended, American National Red

Cross, endowment fund, etc....

604

Saint Vincent's Orphan Asylum.....

590

88 888888

8885

8888888888

Increase ofthe Navy (see also Naval Establish- Page.

ment),

no part ofappropriations for, to be used for

clerical, etc., services in Navy De-

partment... Indebtedness, Territorial,

629, 1288

restriction on Hawaiian.

444

Indecent Pictures, etc.,

attaching, etc., to packages of tobacco for-

bidden..

110

punishment for..

110

importing of, prohibited .

86

Independence, Mo.,

appropriation for public building..

1374

Independence ofMexico, Centennial Celebration,

commission created to represent United

States at...

882

appropriation for expenses..

775

Independent Treasury,

appropriation for salaries, assistant treas-

urers' offices....

494, 1197

for special agents, examinations, etc..... 497

for paper for checks..

497

for contingent expenses..

713, 1390

deficiency appropriation for paper for

checks, etc.

777, 1293

Index to Statutes at Large,

appropriation for continuing preparation of. 481

scope, etc., of, subject to approval of both

Houses of Congress...

481

India Rubber,

8 289 29

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for.....

69

manufactures ofvulcanized, not specially

provided for...

70

sponges made of..

70

on free list, crude, and milk of..

76

scrap or refuse, which has been worn out

by use.

76

India Straw Matting,

duty on..

49

Indian Affairs (see Indian Department).

Indian Affairs, Commissioner of

appropriation for, assistants, clerks, etc. 513, 1215 second assistantand chief clerk authorized. 513
annual reports of expenditures by, repealed 860 Indian Agencies,

appropriation for agricultural experiments

on farms....

271, 1060

for buildings, etc...

272

for construction, repairs, etc., of build-

ings at...

1060

report to be submitted of all properties at,

sharing in appropriations...

1060

details required ..

1060

recommendations on continuing or dis-

continuing....

1060

Indian Agents,

deficiency appropriation for pay.......... 811

Indian Allotments,

jurisdiction of district courts of all actions,

etc., involving..

1094

Indian Annuities, Tribal,

ratification of agreement for commutation

of, with Sacs and Foxes of the Mis-

sissippi, Oklahoma, and Iowa ....

289

Pottawatomies, Kansas,and Wisconsin. 289

amount credited Sacs and Foxes...

289

Pottawatomies .

289

payment to Indians..

289

rate and payment of interest.

289

Indian Commission, Citizen,

appropriation for expenses.. Indian Courts,

272, 1061

appropriation for judges.................

272, 1061



INDEX .

cxi

Indian Department, appropriation for expenses of the... for allotments in severalty..

Page. 269, 1058 269, 1059

for surveying and allotting; repay-

ment....

269, 1059

balances to remain available .

269, 1059

annual statement to be made of all re-

imbursable accounts....

270

deposit of balances due the United

States...

270

cost of all survey and allotment work

on reservations to be submitted an-

nually..

270

for irrigation expenses on reservations,

etc ...

270, 1059

specific appropriations required here-

after.....

270

restriction on all new work..

270

detailed statement to be made of irri-

gation systems, etc.....

270

available until expended ; restriction . 1059 preliminary surveys, etc., allowed . 270, 1059 survey ofpower and reservoir sites.... 1059 .consultation with other branches of

public service.....

270, 1059

for inspectors of irrigation; traveling,

etc., expenses..

270, 1059

number of superintendents of irriga-

tion authorized ..

271, 1059

for suppression of liquor traffic.

271, 1059

for relief of distress, prevention of con-

tagious diseases, etc....

271, 1059

for vaccination.....

271, 1059

forsupport of schools..

271, 1059

forconstruction, etc., ofschool buildings. 271

for construction, etc., of school and

agency buildings..

1060

report on school and agency properties

required in detail, etc...

1060

for collecting and transporting pupils. 271, 1060

employment...

271, 1060

no per capita restriction on schools. 271, 1060

for agricultural experiments on school or

agency farms....

271, 1060

for timber preservation, etc., on reserva-

tions...

271, 1060

Menominee Reservation, Wis., ex-

cepted..

271, 1060

Red Lake Reservation, Minn., ex-

cepted.......

.... 271, 1060

for matrons..

271, 1060

for farmers and stockmen...

271, 1060

limit for agricultural experiments.. 271, 1060

cost account to be submitted annu-

ally.

271, 1061

for supplies; purchase, etc...

1061

for transporting, warehouses, etc...... 272

for agency buildings, etc

272

for telegraphing and telephoning.

1061

for costs, etc., Indian suits; no attorney's

fees....

272, 1061

for citizen commission.

272, 1061

for interpreters......

272, 1061

for Indian police.

272, 1061

allowance for chiefs increased.

272

for judges, Indian courts....

272, 1061

for contingencies; special agents .... 272, 1061

for encouraging farming industry, etc.,

among Indians; repayment, etc .... 1061

Osage civilization fund closed..

1062

repeal of authority to supply insuffi-

cient funds from balances.....

1062

for support, etc., Apaches, Arizona and

New Mexico...

272, 1062

for irrigation system, Gila River Reservation, Ariz.; repayment. ........ 272, 1062

Indian Department- Continued. appropriation for irrigation, etc.; detailed statement of each irrigation project to be made annually. for pumping plant, etc., Colorado River Reservation..

Page.
272 273

for schools, Fort Mojave, Ariz.

273, 1062

Phoenix, Ariz....

273, 1062

Truxton Canyon, Ariz.

273, 1062

for investigation, etc., of Navajo Reser-

vation, Ariz....

273

for bridge, Little Colorado River, Navajo

Reservation, Ariz...

1062

for two bridges, Rio Grande, N. Mex.,

Indian pueblos ....

1062

for support, etc., of Indians in Califor-

nia..

273, 1062

for Sherman Institute, Riverside, Cal. 273, 1063

irrigation projects, Yuma and Colorado

Reservations, allotments to Indians

increased ...

1063

for cost of increased allotments..

1063

grant of Grand Junction school to Colo-

rado; conditions......

273

for support of Grand Junction school.. 274

deduction if accepted by State...

274

grant of Fort Lewis school to Colorado;

conditions..

274

sale if not accepted by State..

274

for relief of distress among Seminoles in

Florida...

274, 1063

investigation to be made of condition of Alabama Indians in Texas; re-

port...

274

for support, etc., Fort Hall Reservation

Indians, Idaho...

274, 1063

for irrigation, etc., Fort Hall Reservation;

reimbursement...

..... 274, 1063

payment for water rights....

274

disposition, etc., of forfeited water

rights...

274

for fulfilling treaties, Bannocks .. 275, 1063

Coeur d'Alenes .

275,1063

allotments of irrigable and grazing

lands to Indians on Fort Hall Reser-

vation......

1063

Lemhi Agency Indians .

275

acceptance of part of allotments in

irrigated portion of Fort Hall Reser-

vation....

275

grazing lands reserved ..

275

Fort Hall Reservation, lands set aside

for domestic timber for Indians ... 1064

agency and school uses ....

1064

quarries, lease or operating; pro-

ceeds

1064

allotments to Indians in "Fort Hall

Bottoms "

1064

former restrictions removed

1064

for school, Haskell Institute, Kans... 275, 1064

Kickapoo Reservation, Kans.. 275, 1064 for support of school for Sacs and Foxes,
of the Missouri, in Kansas.......... 265, 1064

for school, Mount Pleasant, Mich.... 275, 1064

for school, Pipestone, Minn ..

276, 1065

for support of schools for Chippewas of

the Mississippi in Minnesota ..

1065

statement to be made of all moneys

required to be reimbursed, etc., since

1875..

276

for advance interest to Chippewas in

Minnesota ..

276

for civilization, etc., of Chippewas in

Minnesota; repayment .

276, 1065

for annual celebration of White Earth

band of Chippewas.

276, 1065

cxii

INDEX .

Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for bridge across Clearwater

River, Minn...

276

for costs of suit by Yankton Sioux for

interest in ceded lands...........

1065

change of site, bridge across Clearwater

River .

1065

for expenses of members of White Earth

band, sent to Washington, payable

from tribal funds..

1065

for support, etc., Fort Belknap Agency

Indians, Mont..

276, 1066

for Crow Indians, Mont .

277

Flathead Agency Indians, Mont... 277, 1066

Fort Peck Agency Indians, Mont .. 277, 1066

for irrigation, Fort Belknap Reservation,

Mont..

277, 1066

Flathead Reservation .

277, 1066

Blackfeet Reservation .

277, 1066

forfulfilling treaties with Crows.. 277, 1066

Northern Cheyennes and Arapahoes 277, 1066

for "line riders," Northern Cheyenne

Reservation ...

277, 1066

for assisting Indians of Blackfeet and

Flathead Reservations..

277

easement reserved for water power on

grants bordering Flathead Lake... 1066

for school, Genoa, Nebr....

278, 1067

allotment to Parker Cabney canceled . 278

for support, etc., Western Shoshone

Agency Indians, Nev....

278, 1067

for school, Carson City, Nev..

278, 1067

for support, etc., Indians on Moapa,

Walker River, and Pyramid Lake

Reservations, Nev....

278,1067

for payment of damages to public road,

Indian school, Carson City, Nev..

278

for purchase of land for Indian families in

Nevada ..

278

for school, Albuquerque, N. Mex.... 278, 1067

Santa Fe, N. Mex...

278, 1067

for counsel, Pueblo Indians, N. Mex. 278, 1067

for fulfilling treaties with Senecas, New

York..

279, 1067

Six Nations, New York..

279, 1067

for school, Cherokee, N. C.

279, 1067

for support, etc., Sioux of Devils Lake,

N. Dak....

279, 1068

Fort Berthold Agency Indians . 279, 1068

TurtleMountainBand ofChippewas 279, 1068 for school, Fort Totten, N. Dak.. 279, 1068

Wahpeton, N. Dak..

279, 1068

Bismarck, N. Dak...

279, 1068

farm experiments .

1068

settlement of traders' claims against

Indians of Standing Rock Reserva-

tion ....

1068

for payment to Sisseton and Wahpeton

Indians for lands in Devils Lake

Reservation ....

279

for support, etc., of Wichitas, etc.,

Okla ...

280, 1069

for payment from Kiowas, Comanches,

and Apaches tribal funds, for sup-

port of agency, etc.

280, 1069

sale of unallotted, etc. , lands of Kio-

was, etc....

1069

for support, etc., Arapahoes and Chey-

ennes, Okla ...

280, 1069

Kansas Indians, Okla.

280, 1069

Kickapoos....

280, 1069

Poncas..

280, 1069

for school, Chilocco, Okla..

280, 1069

for fulfilling treaties with Pawnees,

Okla....

280, 1069

Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with

Quapaws, Okla...

280, 1069

interest at 5 per cent allowed on fund

of Sacs and Foxes ofthe Mississippi. 280

enrollment of James F. Rowell..

280

for Five Civilized Tribes ...

281

for superintendent, Union Agency

281

for clerical expenses...

281

for leasing lands of Indians................. 281

for sale of restricted lands..

281

for Five Civilized Tribes, Okla. , admin-

istering affairs of....

1069

designation of employee to sign deeds,

etc ...

1069

for removing intruders, etc..

281

forremoving alienation restrictions .

281

for completing work of commission ... 281

for incidentals, Oklahoma ...

281

for sales of tribal property, etc................. 281

use of balances...

281

fordistrict agents, employees, etc.... 281, 1070

payment for remnant allotments due

Chickasaw freedmen ..

281

for costs, etc., in suits concerning lands

of allottees...

281

for tribal schools .

282

for fulfilling treaties with Choctaws,

Okla...

282, 1070

payment from Creek funds to Arthur P.

Murphy..

282

Okmulgee, Okla .

282

payment from Chickasaw funds to

Saint Agnes Academy .

282

Douglas H. Johnston, governor..

282

payment from Creek funds to M. L.

Mott .

282

tribal contracts by Choctaws and

Chickasaws authorized .

1070

deposit of funds of Five Civilized

Tribes in banks authorized . ...... 1070

forJ. Blair Schoenfelt...

1070

for support, etc. , Klamath Agency In-

dians, Oreg.

282, 1071

Warm Springs Agency, Oreg.

282, 1071

Umatilla Agency Indians, Oreg.... 283, 1071

for school, Salem, Oreg...

283, 1071

for support, etc., Indians of Grande

Ronde and Siletz agencies ....

1071

for Modoc Point irrigation project, Kla-

math Reservation, Oreg.; repay-

ment ...

1071

for support, etc., Indians of Grande

Ronde and Siletz agencies, Oreg.... 283

for support, etc., Molels, Oreg.. for school, Carlisle, Pa...

283 283, 1071

for school, Flandreau, S. Dak .

283, 1071

Pierre, S. Dak.......

283, 1071

Rapid City, S. Dak .

283, 1072

for fulfilling treaties with Sioux of dif-

ferent tribes..

283, 1072

Yankton, Sioux..

284, 1072

claims for land referred to Court of

Claims ..

284

for asylum for insane Indians, Canton,

S. Dak....

284, 1072

lieu selections of school lands by South

Dakota, extended to all of Pine

Ridge Reservation ..

1072

lieu selections of school lands by

South Dakota, extended to all of

Rosebud Reservation ..

1073

time extended for classifying, etc.,

surplus lands in Rosebud Reserva-

tion ..

1073

INDEX .

cxiii

Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for agent, Uintah and

Ouray Agency, Utah............ 284, 1073

for fulfilling treaties with confederated

bands of Utes...

284, 1073

for straightening Duchesne River, Uin-

tah Reservation, Utah...

285

for maintenance, etc., detached In-

dians, Skull Valley, etc., Utah.. 1073

forpayment to Uinta Indians from recla-

mation fund ...

285

for completing irrigation systems, lands

of Uncompahgre, Uintah, and White

River Utes ..

285

arid lands of Uintah Reservation open

to Utah under Carey Act..............

285

for extending, etc., irrigating systems,

lands of Uncompahgre, Uintah, and

White River Utes, Utah....

1074

school on former Uintah Reservation ,

transferred to Utah; conditions ... 1074

patents to issue to certain settlers on

opened agricultural lands, Uintah

Reservation, Utah; conditions.... 1074

for bridge across Duchesne River, Theo-

dore, Utah....

1074

for school, Hampton, Va..

286.1074

for support, etc., D'Wamish, etc. , tribes,

Wash.

286, 1074

Makah Indians, Wash.

286, 1074

Qui-nai-elt and Quil-leh-ute Indians,

Wash....

286, 1074

Yakima Agency Indians, Wash... 286, 1074 Colville and Puyallup Agencies,

Wash...

286, 1074

for fulfilling treaty with Spokanes,

Wash .

286, 1074

for paying, etc., Cushman School grounds,

from Puyallup school fund..

1075

for support, etc., Joseph's band of Nez

Perces, Wash .

286, 1075

for irrigation, lands of Yakimas, Wash.;

repayment...

286, 1075

report on necessity for wagon roads,

Yakima Reservation ..

1075

for payment for ceded lands, Colville

Reservation ...

286

for last installment Colville ceded lands 1075

for Young Doctor..

286

sale of old Fort Spokane Military Res-

ervation; use for Indianschools, etc. 1075

for school, Hayward, Wis.......

287, 1076

Tomah, Wis...

.: 287, 1076

for support of Chippewas of Lake Supe-

rior, Wis...

287, 1076

cases against Menominees referred to

Court ofClaims...

287

forsupport, etc. , Pottawatomies, Wis. 288, 1076

for Henry W. Lee, from funds of Winne-

bago Indians....

288

for support, etc., Shoshone Indians,

Wyo....

288, 1076

for school, Shoshone Reservation..... 288, 1076

for irrigation, Wind River Reservation,

Wyo...

288, 1076

for fulfilling treaty with Shoshones,

Wyo.....

288, 1076

desert lands of Shoshone Reservation

opentoWyoming under Carey Act. 288

lands excluded ..

288

statement to be made of fiscal affairs of

all tribes estimated for; details .... 288 commutation of annuities to Sacs and

Foxes of the Mississippi in Okla-

homa...

289

88740°-VOL 30, PT 1-11--101

Indian Department-Continued. commutation of annuities to Pottawatomies in Kansas and Wisconsin ........ use of funds for Indians.....
rate and payment of interest . sales authorized of dead and down tim-

Page.
289 289 289

ber, Menominee Reservation, Wis.;

restrictions....

1076

negotiations with Oneida Indians,

Wis., for commutation of annuities

tobe reopened

1076

annual statement to be made of fiscal

affairs ofall Indian tribes during the preceding year..... payments for judgments to Indians to be made through officers of Interior Department charged with Indian affairs....

1077 . 1077

appropriation for accrued interest to Win-

nebagoes, Nebr. and Wis...

873

for irrigation, Fort Hall Reservation,

Idaho ..

744

forsuits, Seminole Indian allotments.. 744

deficiency appropriation for enrolling Win-

nebago Indians .

124

for bridge across Duchesne River, Myton,

Utah .

124

forLa Pointe Agency, Wis., Indians..

124

foragent, Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak. 124

for district agents for minor allottees in

Oklahoma...

212

for classifying lands, etc., Coeur d'Alene

Reservation, Idaho...

213, 797

for classifying lands, etc. , Yakima Reser-

vation, Wash..

213

for school, Rapid City, S. Dak .

213

for surveying and allotting.

222

for suppressing liquor traffic..... 222, 811, 1323

for school transportation.....

222

fortransporting, etc. , supplies. 222, 226, 811, 814

for inspectors..

222

for contingencies.....

222, 226, 811 , 1323

for Indian agents...

222, 811

for incidentals, Arizona....

222, 226

for incidentals, Montana.... 223, 226, 811, 1327 forirrigation, Tongue River Reservation . 223
for school, Bismarck, N. Dak..... 222 for school, Carlisle, Pa... 233

for school , Pierre, S. Dak..

223, 226, 811

for Sioux Indians, different tribes....

223,

811, 814, 1323, 1327

for Yakimas, etc., Wash...

223

for Shoshones, Wyo.....

223, 1324

for Indian exhibit, Saint Louis Exposi-

tion....

223, 1327

for Chickasaw Indians..

223

for support of schools..

226

for school, Riverside, Cal...

226, 811, 1323

for Pawnee Indians, Okla..

226

- for James W. Whitten...

797 '

for removing, etc., bodies of Cynthia Ann Parker and Prairie Flower..... 797

for Norbert Sero...

797

for telegraphing, transporting, etc., sup

plies...

811, 814, 1323, 1326

for costs in land contests..

811

for allotments, Coeur d'Alene Reserva-

tion....

811

for incidentals, North Dakota.....

811

for schools, Pawnees, Okla..

811

for incidentals, Indian Territory..

811

for support, Joseph's band, Nez Perces

Indians....

811, 1323

for town-site expenses, Yuma Indian

Reservation, Cal...

880

cxiv

INDEX .

Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for town-site expenses, Colorado River Indian Reser-

vation, Cal. and Ariz..

880

for Five Civilized Tribes.....

1309

for prevention, etc., of trachoma..

1323

for school buildings.....

1323

for funeral, etc. , expenses of Bois Fort

Indians, Minn ..

1323

for support, etc. , confederated bands of

Ute Indians...

1323

for Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior,

Wis...

1323, 1327

for school, Shoshone Reservation, Wyo.. 1324

for incidentals, Utah...

1327

moneys in hands of agents, etc., may be

deposited in banks; bond..

856

Indian Depredation Claims, appropriation for defense in...

748, 1424

deficiency appropriation for defense in,

clerk hire, etc.....

213

forjudgments, Courtof Claims in. 218, 808, 1320

Indian Farmers and Stockmen,

appropriation for....

271, 1060

Indian Head, Md.,

bridge authorized across Mattawoman

Creek at........

1086

Indian Head Naval Proving Ground, Md.,

appropriation for public works...

617, 1277

Indian Inspectors,

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses...

222

Indian Interpreters,

appropriation for... Indian Lands,

... 272, 1061

punishment for timber depredations on.... 857

stations required at town sites on railroad

rights of way on...

859

Indian Madder,

on free list...

77

Indian Matrons,

appropriation for........ Indian Moneys,

271, 1060

agents, etc., may deposit, in banks...... 856

indemnity bond required .....

856

Indian Office, Interior Department,

appropriation for Commissioner, assist-

ants, clerks, etc..

513, 1215

for classifying and indexing files of, etc.. 513 second assistant commissioner and chief

clerk authorized ...

513

deficiency appropriation for completing

filing system....

212

for second assistant commissioner.

1309

office building authorized for, and other bureaus, etc., in Washington ..... 699
Indian Police,

appropriation for..

272, 1061

pay of chiefs increased..

272

Indian Pupils,

appropriation for support, etc., at schools 271 , 1060

for transporting, etc .....

271 , 1060

for securing employment in industrial

pursuits; limit on transportation . 271, 1060

native pupils from Alaska..

1060

no per capita restriction....

271, 1060

deficiency appropriation for transporta-

tion ....

222

Indian Reservations,

appropriation for survey and subdivision

of, for allotment...

269, 1059

repayment for expenses...

269, 1059

balances continued available ..... 269, 1059

Indian Reservations-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for survey and subdivisionof;

cost of survey and allotment work to

be stated annually....

270

for irrigation and drainage work.. .... 270, 1059

restricted to general work..

270, 1059

investigation for power and reservoir

sites ...

1059

for timber protection, etc., on....... 271, 1060

Menominee, Wis., excluded.

271, 1060

Red Lake, Minn ., excluded ..

271,1060

for irrigation system, Gila River,

Ariz ..

272, 1062

for Colorado River, Ariz., pumping plant

for irrigation..

273

for civilization, etc., of Indians on

Tongue River, Mont....

277

for fourth installment, ceded lands of

Colville, Wash...

286

for last installment Colville lands

1075

for expenses of opening; reimburs-

able...

740; 1415

for completing surveys, Flathead, Mont. 740

for irrigation, Fort Hall, Idaho....... 744, 1063

for irrigation, Fort Belknap, Mont...

1066

for irrigation, Flathead, Mont...

1066

for irrigation, Blackfeet, Mont..

1066

for irrigation, Klamath, Oreg.

1071

for bridge, Little Colorado River, Nav-

ajo, Ariz...

1062

for classifying, etc., lands of Coeur

d'Alene, Idaho

213

for classifying, etc., lands of Yakima,

Wash....

213

for expenses of opening, to entry; reim-

bursable..

797

for townsite expenses, Yuma, Cal...

880

for townsite expenses, Colorado River,

Cal , and Ariz...

880

Cheyenne and Arapahoe, Okla., sales of

reserved lands on former..

533

Cheyenne River, S. Dak., price increased

for school sections purchased on........ 196

sale of lands for town site .

602

time extended for paying installments

for lands on opened portion of......

266

Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, pay for survey and

allotment work on...

797

Colorado River, Ariz., allotment of irrigated lands to Indians increased ....
appropriation for costs Colville, Wash., trust allotments to In-
dians in..

1063 1063.
862

Flathead, Mont., classification, etc., of

unsurveyed lands in..

863

sale, etc., of lots fronting Flathead Lake. 296

disposal of allotments of irrigable lands 297

exchange of allotments on reservoir

and power sites..

297

condemnation authorized..

297

Fort Berthold, N. Dak., allotment, sale,

etc., of unsurveyed lands ..

455

Fort Hall, Idaho, allotment of irrigable and

grazing lands to Indians on...

1063

lands set aside for domestic timber,

agency, school, quarries, etc....

1064

allotments oflands, " Fort Hall Bottoms"

grazing reserve..

1064

Kiowa, etc., Okla., allotments to children

born since June 5, 1906, from pasture

reserve lands.

861

time extended to pay for timber and

agricultural lands on..

266

Pine Ridge, S. Dak., sale of unallotted, etc., lands in Bennett County.... 440

INDEX .

CXV

Indian Reservations-- Continued.

Page.

Pine Ridge, S. Dak., selections by South

Dakota, extended ....

1073

Quinaielt, Wash., allotments by Hoh, etc.,

Indians allowed on.

1345

Red Lake, Minn., additional time for pay-

ments on ceded part of..

265

Rosebud, S. Dak., sale of unallotted, etc.,

lands in Mellette and Washabaugh

counties...

448

lieu land selections by South Dakota, ex-

tended ..

1073

time extended to pay for surplus lands of 265

Siletz, Oreg., disposal ofreserved land .... 367

right of way through...

582

Standing Rock, S. Dak. and N. Dak. , price

increased for school sections pur-

chased.on .

196

time extended for paying installments

for lands on opened portion of. ............... 266

Yakima, Wash., town sites to be reserved on

unallotted lands ..

348

allotments to children.

349

appropriation forexpenses ofsurveys, etc. 349

reservations for public, uses .

349

disposition of proceeds from sales..

349

prohibition ofintoxicants...

349

Yuma, Ariz., allotment ofirrigated lands to

Indians increased .

1063

appropriation for costs..

1063

religious organizations may select irriga-

ble lands on..

829

power sites to be reserved within irrigation

projects in, opened .

858

pending legislation for projects not au-

thorized..

858

punishment for unlawfully cutting tim-

ber on....

857

trust allotments...

857

not extinguishing fires on...

857

sale of timber on unallotted lands in, per-

mitted ....

857

disposition of proceeds...

857

not applicable to Minnesota and Wiscon-

gin ..

857

stations required at townships on railroad rights of way granted across........ 859
transfer or sale ofproperty not required on. 861

villages in, Washington, trust patents for

lots in...

858

Indian River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of.

645

for lighting.

754

Indian Schools,

appropriation for support of.

271, 1059

for buildings, sites, etc..

271, 1060

for transporting pupils, etc..

271,-1060

securing employment in industrial

pursuits.

271, 1060

no per capita restriction.

271, 1060

for

agricultural at..

experiments

on..f..ar2m7s1, 1060

amount restricted .

1060

deficiency appropriation for support .

226

report to be submitted of all properties at,

sharing in appropriations.

1060

details required .

1060

recommendations on continuing or dis-

continuing....

1060

Indian Supplies,

appropriation for purchase, telegraphing,

transportation, etc.

272, 1061

general telegraphing and telephoning in-

cluded .

1061

amount available for current year....... 1061

Indian Supplies-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for telegraphing,

transporting, etc.

811, 1323

for transporting

811, 814, 1323, 1326

future purchases to be made under regula-

tions for regular contracts...

861

use of Indian labor and products.....

861

Indian Territory,

deficiency appropriation for incidentals,

Indian Service in ..

811

Indian Tribal Funds, etc.,

no contracts affecting, to be approved

without action of Congress...

808

Indian Tribes,

annual accounts to be stated of all reim-

bursable advances to .

270

balances due to be deposited in the Treas-

ury as miscellaneous receipts..

270

detailed statement to be made ofall appro-

priations made since July 1, 1875, from tribal funds to be reimbursed.. 276 *
detailed statement to be made of fiscal af-

fairs of all, estimated for the year

1912....

289

Indian Villages, Wash.,

trust patents to lots on reservations.

858

restriction on alienation .

858

Indiana,

assigned to seventh judicial circuit.

1131

consent of Congress to agreement for jurisdiction of State laws over Lake

Michigan, by Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan and... Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad Company, may bridge Little Calumet River in Cook
County, Ill. Indiana Harbor, Ind.,
appropriation for improvement of, Lake
Michigan... deficiency appropriation for inner harbor
maintenance
preliminary examination to be made of.... Indiana Judicial District,
terms of court.

882
178
657 1301 955 1110

Indiana Shoals, Lake Michigan,

light vessel, White Shoals, transferred to... 536

Indiana Steel Company,

may bridge Grand Calumet River, Lake

County, Ind..

587

Indianapolis, Ind.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, architects' commission.....

207

terms of court at.

1110

Indians (see also Lands in Severalty to In-

dians),

appropriation for suppressing liquor traffic

among .

271,1059

for prevention and treatment of diseases

among...

271, 1059

for legal expenses, in allotment and prop-

erty suits...

272, 1061

for encouraging industry among; repay-

ment..

1061

forasylum for insane, Canton, S. Dak. 28 , 1072

deficiency appropriation for suppressing

liquor traffic among.

1323

allottees dying without heirs to be reported

to Congress for cancellation of patent 858

allotments in severalty to, on reservations. 859

not on reservations ...

860

issue of trust patents to Indians who have none, general provisions for, repealed 859

prohibition of giving, etc., intoxicants to, required in constitution of Arizona .. 569

of New Mexico ..

558

cxvi

INDEX .

Indians- Continued .

Page,

lease between Senecas of New York and

Edward Bolard, ratified

927

Indians, American,

appropriation for ethnological researches

among...

1395

Indians in Arizona,

deficiency appropriation for prosecuting... 224

227, 1327

Indians, Insane,

appropriation for asylum for, at Canton,

S. Dak..

284, 1072

Indigent Soldiers, etc., D. C.,

appropriation for burial at Arlington,

etc.

723, 1400

deficiency appropriation for burial of..

220

Indigo,

duty on, carmined ...

14

extracts or pastes...

14

on free list....

76

Indurated Fiber Ware,

duty on.

67

Industrial Home School, D. C., appropriation for expenses.

410, 1001

deficiency appropriation for maintenance.. 1298

Industrial Home School for Colored Children

D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.

409, 1000

deficiencyappropriationformaintenance 209, 1298

for fuel...

209

Industrial Property, International Union for Protection of,

deficiency appropriation for expenses of meeting at Washington, D. C. 119, 775, 1290
Industries, Productive,

officials to correctly answer census in-

quiries ... punishment for failure..... information to be used only for statis-

tics; restriction on publication ...

Industry and Labor, International Exposition

of,

appropriation for participating in, at

Turin, Italy..

345

Information Division, Department of Com-

merce and L-bor,

66 appropriation for chief, clerks, etc...... 527, 1230

Ingalls, " Army Transport,

appropriation for repairs.

621

transfer to Navy authorized ..

256

Ingots,

duty on, nickel .

31

steel....

23

cogged ..

23

for railway wheels and tires ..

on free list, copper, unmanufactured, not

specially provided for.

74

platinum..

78

Ingrain Carpets,

duty on, treble..

55

two-ply..

55

Injunctions,

jurisdiction of circuit courts of appeals in

proceedings for, by district courts.. 1134

provisions for, under Judicial Code.....

1162

restriction on granting interlocutory, based

on alleged unconstitutionality of a

State law....

557, 1162

Injuries to Government Employees,

appropriation for medical examinations on

account of..

526, 1228

settlement of claims of Isthmian Canal

employees......

1452

Interlocutory Injunctions, restriction on granting, based on alleged unconstitutionality of State laws . 557, 1162

* 12 8 885 73*8*572

Ink, duty on.
powders.. Inquests, D. C.,
restriction on holding.......

Pagc. 14 14
974

Inquiries and Investigations, Senate, appropriation for expenses of.. deficiency appropriation for ..
Insane Aliens, excluded admission .

473, 1175 217,879
263

Insane Asylum, D. C. (see Government Hos-

pital for Insane, D. C.). Insane, D. C.,
appropriation for expenses lunacy writs ...
for support of indigent..

executing 404,995 410, 1002

for deporting indigent nonresident.. 410, 1002

advances authorized ..

411

Insane Persons, Alaska, appropriation for care, etc..

744, 1420

detention hospitals for, authorized at Fair-.

banks and Nome...

852

appropriation for construction; contracts. 852

Insecticide Act, 1910,

appropriation for expenses of enforcing..... deficiency appropriation for expenses, en-
forcing.. manufacture of adulterated or misbranded
articles unlawful...............

1264 1312 331

punishment for..

331

introduction in interstate or foreign com-

merce prohibited ..

331

punishment for shipping.

331

for delivering.

331

for selling.

331

manufacture for export on order not in-

cluded ..

331

regulations for examination, etc. , to be

made...

331

examination by Department of Agricul-

ture..

332

hearings iffound adulterated , etc ..

332

publication ofjudgment ..

332

proceedings .

332

definition of insecticides .

332

of Paris green..

332

of lead arsenate..

332

of fungicide...

332

articles deemed adulterated .

332

misbranded ..

333

protection of dealer by guaranty of manu-

facturer, wholesaler, etc.

334

conditions requisite ..

334

seizure of adulterated, etc., articles.

334

disposition if condemned.

334

return to owner; conditions .

334

examination of articles imported .

334

admission refused if adulterated or mis-

branded....

334

return to owner or consignee; condi-

tions .....

334

application ofterms employed .

335

title ..

335

in effect January, 1, 1911 ...

335

Insects (see also Entomology Bureau, Depart-

ment of Agriculture),

duty on dried ...

13

on free list, crude dried , drugs, not specially

provided for..

75

eggs of.

75

Insertings,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc..

50

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

Gothrough machine.

50

silk ..

60

woolen....

54

INDEX .

cxvii

Inspection ofSteam Vessels,

Page.

temporary certificates by inspectors for use

until official is received..

831

restrictions on vessels sailing without cer-

tificates .....

832

Inspector-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers; longev-

ity...

247, 1041

Inspector-General's Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc... 502, 1204

for expertaccountant, travel expenses. 249, 1043

compensation.....

249, 1043

Inspectors, Interior Department, appropriation for........

511, 1214

for per diem, etc.

512, 1214

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses...

1323

Inspectors, Interior Department, Special,

appropriation for....

511, 1214

for per diem, etc......

512, 1214

deficiency appropriation for..... 222, 226, 810

Inspectors, Mine, appropriation for salaries; per diem.... 742, 1419

Inspectors ofHulls and Boilers,

appropriation for salaries of, and assistants. 1228

Inspectors ofIrrigation, Indian Department,

appropriation for pay, etc..

270, 1059

to be skilled irrigation engineers.. .... 270, 1059

Institute ofAgriculture, International,

appropriation for payment of quota and

member....

342, 1032

Institutions,

census enumeration of inmates of...

4

1824

Institutions, Educational, etc.,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit..

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for....... 78

Institutions, National,

on free list, works of art, etc., for presenta-

tion to......

81

Instruction Pay, Diplomatic and Consular

Officers,

appropriation for.............

338, 1029

Instruments,

duty on, glass, optical.

21

on free list, professional, of immigrants.... 78

288888

to prevent conception, produce abortion, etc., forbidden entry; seizure, etc.. 86

Insular Affairs Bureau, Army,

appropriation for pay ofofficers; longevity. 248, 1042

additional assistant authorized, rank,

pay, etc.

248

for care ofinsane soldiers in Philippines

and Porto Rico...

1053

Insular Affairs Bureau, War Department,

appropriation for law officer, clerks, etc. 503, 1206

for rent..

504, 1206

Insular Possessions,

appropriation for mail equipments for.. 362, 1334

for fortifications....

598, 1343

for seacoast batteries, Hawaiian and

" Philippine Islands...

598, 1343

for electric plants, Philippine Islands. 598, 1343

for searchlights for harbor defense, Phil-

ippine and Hawaiian Islands.... 598, 1343

for preservation, repair, etc. , fortifica-

tions, Philippine Islands...

598, 1343

for preservation, repair, etc., torpedo

structures, Philippine Islands... 598, 1343

for supplies, etc., batteries, Hawaiian

and Philippine Islands...

598, 1343

for land defenses, Philippine Islands.... 1343

for operating fire-control stations..... 598, 1343

for constructing fire-control stations..... 599

for seacoast cannon, etc...

1343

for ammunition for seacoast cannon, etc. 1343

Insular Possessions-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for altering seacoast artillery. 1343 for installation of seacoast artillery..... 1343
customs tariff schedules applicable to, ex-

cept the Philippines, Guam, and

Tutuila....

11

discriminations against wearers of United

States uniforms by theaters, etc., in,

a misdemeanor; penalty...

963

white slave traffic provisions applicable to. 827

Insurance Corporations,

excepted from voluntary bankruptcy.

839

involuntary bankruptcy.

839

excise tax levied on net incomes of..

112

Insurance Department, D. C., appropriation for salaries...

379, 972

printing annual reports...

379

Insurance, International Congress on Social,

invited to meet in United States...

1034

Intaglio Seals, Foreign Mail Service,

appropriation for....

366, 1339

Integuments ofAnimals,

on free list, crude, etc., not specially pro-

vided for...

73

Interest and Sinking Fund, District ofColum-

bia,

appropriation for..

404,995

Interest on Bonds and Certificates ofIndebted-

ness,

payable in gold coin....

192

Interior Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants; at-

torneys, etc....... duties ofchiefclerkspecified..

511, 1213 1213

for board of pension appeals....

511

vacancies not to be filled ..:

511

for special inspectors, inspectors, etc. 511, 1213

for clerks, etc..

511, 1213

for mechanics, watchmen, engineers,

etc..

511, 1213

forclerk to sign Indian tribal deeds... 511, 1214

for employees, old Post-Office Build-

ing..

512, 1214

for assistants, etc., office of Assistant

Attorney General....

512, 1214

duties of Board of Pension Appeals

transferred to..

1214

for expenses, special inspectors, etc.. 512, 1214

for Commissioner General Land Office,

assistant, clerks, etc..

512, 1214

· for Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as-

sistant, clerks, etc..

513, 1215

for Commissioner of Pensions, deputies,

clerks, etc..

513, 1216

for Commissioner of Patents, assistant,

examiners, etc...

514, 1216

for Commissioner of Education, clerks,

etc...

515, 1217

for Superintendent of Capitol Building

and Grounds, etc...

515, 1218

for contingent expenses..

516, 1218

for stationery, etc..

516, 1218

for rent...

516, 1218

for removing models of patents to Senate

or House Office Buildings...

516

forsurveyors general and their clerks. 517, 1219

for civil expenses under..

737, 1413

for repairs to buildings...

737, 1413

statement of expenditures...

737

for special repairs, Pension Office...

737

for extending heating plant to Pension

Office....

737

for elevators, Pension Office...

737

for central heating plant...

1413

for new roof, Patent Office Building.

1413

for Capitol...

737, 1413

cxviii

INDEX.

Interior Department-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for Senate Office Building.. 738

for enlarging Capitol grounds........ 738, 1414

for public lands..

739, 1414

for abandoned military reservations.. 742, 1417

for Bureau of Mines.....

742, 1418

for Geological Survey... for Indian Department..

743, 1417 269,744, 1058

for expenses of disbarment proceed-

ings...
for Supreme Court reports...... for law books to judicial officers .

744, 1419 744, 1419
1419

for care of insane, Alaska..

744, 1420

for education in Alaska..

744, 1420

for reindeer for Alaska..

744, 1420

for protection ofgame in Alaska..... 745, 1420

for suppressing liquor traffic among Alas-

kan natives..

1420

for national parks..

745, 1420

examination of San Francisco water

supply.....

1420

annual statement required of receipts

and expenditures of prior year.... 1421

for Government Hospital for Insane.. 745, 1421

for Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institu-

tion...

746, 1422

for Howard University..

746, 1422

for Freedmen's Hospital.
for printing and binding of..
for pensions... for Indian Department...

746, 1423 768, 1446 842, 1085 269, 1058

deficiency appropriation for new quarters

for model exhibit..

123

for repairs, etc. , heating apparatus.... 123

for Capitol....

123, 212, 795, 889, 1306

for Senate Office Building..

123

forprosecuting fraudulent Mexican Kick-

apoo Indian allotments.

123

for Geological Survey..

124,

212, 222, 795, 811, 890, 1309, 1323

for public lands........

124,

222, 226,796, 810, 814, 1307, 1323, 1326

for Indian Department..

124,

212, 222, 226, 797, 811, 814, 1309, 1323, 1326

for House Office Building..

125

for ice plant....

212

for completing filing system..

212

for paying Court of Claims judgments un-

der...

.:... 218, 807

for special inspectors... for contingent expenses..

222, 226, 810 222, 810, 1323

for Bureau of Education.

222, 1323

for reindeer in Alaska..

222, 810

for Sequoia National Park.

222

for Army pensions.....

223

for photolithographing, Patent Office... 226

for Patent Office..

795, 810

for Columbia Institution for Deaf and

Dumb .....

796, 1309

for Government Hospital for Insane... 796, 1309, 1323

for Freedmen's Hospital and Howard

University..

796

for Mesa Verde National Park........

796

for Lewis and Clark Exposition, Oreg... 810

for contingent expenses; reimbursement 1305

for establishing Bureau of Mines..... 1305

for rent, Civil Service Commission, etc.. 1305

for moving office equipment, etc. Civil .

Service Commission.

1305

for Pension Office, repairs.

1305

for repairs to building..

1306

.for Will M. Tipton.

1306

for Pension Office..

1306

for classification, etc., lands in Northern

Pacific grant..

1307

Interior Department-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for pensions. 1310, 1324

for inspectors .

1323

for General Land Office....

1323

for Howard University..

1323

for education in Alaska..

1323

for abandoned military reservations.. 1326

Bureau of Mines established in; officials

and functions...

369

chief clerk to be chief executive officer of;

duties.....

1213

investigation by joint Congressional com-

mittee of Forest Service and....

871

lease of building for Civil Service Commission and bureaus of, authorized .... 795

surveying public lands, additional per

diem to surveyors for..

890

Internal and Foreign Commerce,

appropriation for experts, etc., procuring

facts relative to....

... 526, 1228

Internal Revenue,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc .....

491, 1193

for chemists, etc., denatured alcohol . 491, 1193

for stamp agents, etc ....

491, 1193

for salaries, collectors, surveyors, etc; re-

striction...

494, 1196

for agents, gaugers, etc. for miscellaneous expenses.

494, 1196 494, 1196

for expenses..collecting corporation

tax..

494, 1197

for classifying, etc. , returns of corpora-

tions..

494, 1197

restriction on inspection of returns. 494, 1197

for Solicitor of...

522, 1224

for paper for stamps, and freight.... 713, 1390

for refunding collections...

713, 1390

for punishing violations of, laws..... 713, 1390

detailed statement ofexpenditures. 713, 1390

detail for enforcing laws relating to

Department..

713, 1390

deficiency appropriation for corporation-

tax expenses..

120, 780, 1291

for refund of stamps on export mani-

fests ...

219, 809

for paying judgments against officers

of...

219, 225, 809, 1321, 1326

for refunding illegally collected, taxes.. 219,

1292, 1321

for punishing violations of, laws ..... 219, 1321

for redemption of stamps...

219, 225, 1321

for paper for stamps, etc..

777, 1292

for refund of taxes; reissue of drafts for.. 778

for agents, gaugers, etc..

1291

for classifying, etc., corporation-tax re-

turns ...

1291

agents to examine books, etc., for assess-

nent of corporation tax.

115

alcohol or high-proof spirits may be with-

drawn in tanks, etc., free of tax, for

Government use..

1014

certified checks receivable in payment of,

taxes ..

965

corporation excise tax provisions..

112

distilled spirits, basis of capacity, of filtra-

tion-aeration process mash....

590

period for filling tubs; filtration-aeration

process added...

590

fruit brandy made from, artificially sweet-

ened wine, exempt from distilled-

spirits regulations ...

1014

general laws made applicable to corpora-

tion-tax provisions.

117

pay of storekeepers, storekeeper-gaugers,

and gauger , while traveling, modi-

fied ..

369

INDEX .

cxix

Internal Revenue- Continued .

Page. International Committee on Electrical Units, Page.

pay of storekeepers, gaugers, and store-

appropriation for expenses of delegates. 528, 1232

keeper-gaugers, increased ..

928 International Committee on Weights and Meas-

punishment for divulging returns of corporation tax.
stamps on foreign bills of exchange, time extended for claims for refund-

ures, 116 appropriation for expense of member.. 528, 1231
International Conference of American States, Fourth,

ing......

120, 779, 1291

stationeryfor, service to be purchased under

direction of Secretary of the Treas-

ury....

1195

storekeepers, gaugers, and storekeepergaugers allowed cumulative leave of

absence..

592

Internal Revenue, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputies, chemists,

clerks, etc.

491, 1193

duties under corporation-tax provisions... 115

Internal Revenue Taxes,

articles for export, made in bonded manu-

facturing warehouses exempted from

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

representation at..

203

for transporting delegates, etc, to...

775

use of Army transport to convey delegates, etc., to, authorized ; expenses.... 877

International Conference on Letters of Ex-

change,

appropriation for participation in...

1364

International Conference on Maritime Law;

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

representation at..

203

International Congress of Refrigeration,

invited to meet in United States; no ex-

pense.....

886

paying. drawback allowed for, paid on domestic
alcohol in preparations exported... leaf tobacco, unstemmed and unmanufac-
tured, in the hand , not subject to tax on cigars and cigarettes..... on manufactured tobacco and snuff.
stamps to be provided for new rating of, on
cigars and cigarettes.. International Agricultural Exhibition,
deficiency appropriation for participation in, at Buenos Aires.....

89 International Congress on Alcoholism ,

. appropriation for expenses of delegates,

90

etc ..

1034

International Congress on Hygiene and

110

Demography,

"

110 appropriation for expenses, etc....

341, 1034

109 invitation to States to participate in Fif-

teenth ....

873

110 to be held in United States in 1911 or

1912 ....

874

International Congress on Social Insurance,

203 invited to meet in United States....

1034

International Association for Labour Legisla-

tion, appropriation for contribution................. 526, 1227

International Association of Navigation Congresses, Permanent,

appropriation for expenses of proposed

meeting, etc..

667

invitation extended to meet in United

States.

667

International Boundary Commission, Mexican

International Exchanges,

appropriation for expenses.

718, 1395

for printing and binding for:.

768, 1447

International Exposition of Art and History,

Rome, Italy,

I

appropriation for participating in......................... 345

International Exposition ofFine Arts,

deficiency appropriation for participation

in, at Buenos Aires....

203

International Exposition of Industry and 

Water,

appropriation for continuing work of... 342, 1032

International Boundary, Passamaquoddy Bay, appropriation for expenses, arbitration of.. 344

expenses of marking, to be paid from arbi-

tration appropriation ....

775

International Bureau for Publication of Customs Tariffs,

Labor, Turin, Italy,

appropriation for participating in.....

345

International Exposition, Panama-Pacific,

foreign nations may be invited by Presi- .

dent to participate in...

1454

conditions precedent...

1454

International Geodetic Association for the

Measurement ofthe Earth,

appropriation for annual contribution.. 341, 1031

International Bureau for Repressing African Slave Trade,

appropriationforannual contributionto. 342, 1032

International Bureau of American Republics,

appropriation for expenses..

342, 1032

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of new building...

203

International Bureau of Permanent Court of

Arbitration,

appropriation for payment of quota.... 342, 1032

for expenses ofdelegates....

756

International Industrial Property Bureau, appropriation forshare of expenses.. 515, 1217
International Institute ofAgriculture,

appropriation for payment of quota and

member...

343, 1032

deficiency appropriation for quota.

774

International Office ofPublic Health,

appropriation for annual quota..

344, 1034

appropriation for annual contribution .. 342, 1032 International Parliamentary Union for Pro-

International Bureau of Weights and Measures,

moting International Arbitration,

appropriation for annual contribution.. 341, 1031

Bureau of,

deficiencyappropriation for contribution to 203 appropriation for contribution to.......... 345

International Catalogue ofScientific Literature,

International Prison Commission,

appropriation for expenses, preparation

appropriation for annual subscription, etc. 342

of.....

718, 1395 International Railway Congress

for printing and binding..

768, 1447 appropriation for payment of quota...

343

International Commercial Directory

International Red Cross Conference, Ninth,

appropriation for printing and binding;

appropriation for expenses of meeting..... 1034

sale.....

769 International Sanitary Bureau,

International Commission for Revision of Classification of. Diseases and Causes ofDeath,
commissioners to be appointed to........

appropriation for annual share of mainte-

nance..

343, 1033

International Seismological Association,

1 deficiency appropriation for expenses.. 344, 1290

CXX

INDEX .

International Union for Protection of Indus- Page. trial Property,

deficiency appropriation for expenses of meeting of, at Washington, D. C.... 119, 775, 1290

International Waterways Commission, appropriation for expenses...
Interpreters, Census, allowed to assist enumerators..

730, 1407 6

Interpreters, Diplomatic and Consular Service,

appropriationforembassies and legations 338, 1029 for student, China,Japan, andTurkey. 339, 1029 not to be paid other salaries.... 339, 1030

for quarters, student, Japan and Tur-

key..

339, 1030

for consulates .

346, 1035

Interstate Commerce,

·

regulations of, transportation of females for

immoral practices, etc ..................

825

Interstate Commerce Cases,

precedence given to, of public importance. 854

certificate of Attorney-General to secure
hearing at earliest practicable day.. 854 composition of court; filling vacancies.. 854

divisions of opinion; assignment of addi- - tional círcuit judge.. 854

reargument to be heard.

854

pending causes included .....

854

Interstate Commerce Commission,

appropriation for salaries...

719, 1396

for expenses, regulating commerce... 719, 1396

for enforcing reports, information, etc.,

from common carriers.......

719, 1396

for arbitrating railway employees' differ-

ences..

719, 1397

designation of member to perform

duties in...

1397

for enforcing safety appliances regula-

tions.....

719, 1397

for securing reports of railway accidents. 720

for expenses, compelling use of safe loco-

motive engine boilers...

1397

extension of period for compliance of

safety appliances to cars placed in

service from April 14, 1910, to July

1, 1911..

1397

for investigating block-signal systems,

etc.

720, 1397

for printing and binding for ......... 769, 1447

deficiencyappropriation for CharlesStarek. 121

for arbitrating railway employees' differ-

ences...

782

for legal expenses under Attorney-Gen-

eral...

799

for printing and binding..

806

cases in commerce court by, or against, to

be brought by or against the United

States..

543, 1150

Commerce Court to enforce orders of, other

than payment of money..

1148

to decide suits to enjoin, etc. , orders of.. 1148

to enforce regulations of, by mandamus,

etc ....

1149

common carriers required to comply with

orders of..

554

enforcement of orders of, other than pay-

ment of money, by Commerce Court. 539

may intervene in cases before Commerce

Court...

543, 1150

part of Patent Office printing allotment,

1911 , made available for..

1448

safe locomotive-engine boilers provisions.. 913

inspection, investigations, etc.

914

suits to enjoin, etc. , orders of, to be brought

in Commerce Court against the

United States ; effect of, etc ..

542

Interstate Commerce Commission-Continued. Page.

railwayaccidentstobemonthly reported to. 350

investigation of; powers, etc....

351

in connection with State commissions. 351

forms of reports, etc., to be prescribed by. 351

standard safety appliances equipment for

cars, to be designated by, in six

months...

298

extension of period for cars in service... 298

to prescribe modified height of drawbars .. 299

Interstate Commerce Regulations (see also Com-

merce Court),

creation ofCommerce Court, functions, etc. 539

application of..

544

transportation of oil, etc. , by pipe lines.

544

sending messages by telegraph, telephone,

or cable between States, etc...

544

transportation by rail or rail and water be-

tween States, Territories, etc ....... 545

within a Territory....

545

to an adjacent foreign country..

545

through a foreign country to United

States...

545

to port ofshipment forforeign country. 545

from foreign country to port of destina-

tion....

545

not applicable to traffic wholly within a

State..

545

""'common carrier" includes express and

sleeping car companies....

545

"railroad includes bridges, ferries, etc. 545

switches, terminal facilities, etc....

545

freight yards, etc..

545

"transportation " includes cars, facilities

for shipment, etc..

545

services for receipt, transfer, delivery,

storage, etc..

545

carriers to furnish, upon request..

545

through routes and reasonable rates... 545

rules for return of cars, etc ..

545

all charges to be just and reasonable..

545

unjust and unreasonable, declared un-

lawful....

545

classification of telegraph, etc., mes-

sages .

545

contracts with carriers by telegraph, etc.,

companies, allowed...

546

just and reasonable classification, etc., of

property to be made...

546

facilities for baggage, etc...

546

unjust classifications, etc. , of interstate and

foreign commerce unlawful....

546

free transportation of passengers forbidden . 546

exceptions; employees and families, etc. 546

interchange for officers, etc ..

546

exchange of telegraph franks. etc.

546

"employees" described...

546

"families" described..

547

penalty for giving or using..

547

jurisdiction of offenses...

547

railroads forbidden to carry, products in

which interested ..

547

timber excepted.....

547

switch connections, and cars to be fur-

nished.

547

discriminations forbidden ...

547

enforcement by order of Commission.. 547

charges for short and long hauls ...

547

aggregate, for shorter distance not to ex-

ceed longer, over same route..

547

allowance in special cases; decision of

Commission ..

548

temporary continuance of present rates

until determination ; limitation ; ex-

tension of time.....

548

effect of water competition...

548

INDEX.

cxxi

Interstate Commerce Regulations-Continued. schedules provisions amended .....

without effective date, unlawful ..

penalty for noncompliance with regulations, orders, etc., of Commission as to.....

failing to give, or misstating, rates, etc. , for shipments ..

railroads to post name of agent at every freight station...

violations of, by carriera, officers, etc., a

misdemeanor; penalty.. punishment, if unlawful discrimination

in rates, etc....
giving lower rates by false billing, classification, etc., of carrier, a misde-

meanor; punishment... attempting to secure lower rates by false
billing, rebates, etc. , by shipper, a

misdemeanor; punishment..

unjust discriminations, etc., by bribery,

a misdemeanor; punishment.......... parties affected by, may bring action

for damages... complaints against carrier for violations to
be filed with Commission : ..

notice to carrier; reparation..---------

investigation by Commission.... Commission to investigate complaints by
State commissions, or on its own motion....... enforcement of orders..

direct damage to complainant not necessary...

Commission to determine if charges, classifications, etc., are unjust, díscrimi natory, etc .....
to prescribe rates, etc., to be observed .. to issue orders to carriers...

taking effect of, except money payments; continuance.

to apportion joint rates, etc., on failure of carriers....

determination of proposed new rates, etc.. suspension until decision of Commission. final determination................

time extended .

rates increased since January 1, 1910.. through routes and joint classifications and

rates to be established by Commission on failure of carriers...

water connection included .

exclusion of electric roads not carrying

freight..
transportation wholly by water.... to embrace entire length of railroad; ex-

ception...... right of shipper to choose,to beobserved .
issue of bill of lading therefor..

choice of competing lines.. disclosing information of shipments, un-
lawful; receiving.....

under legal process, etc., excepted . penalty for..
allowance for instrumentalities furnished

by shippers....

determination by Commission; enforcement.

orders of Commission not restricted .

awards of money damages..

....

suitin circuitcourt to compel payment..

order of Commission prima facie evidence of facts.....

allowance to petitioner if successful... time for filing complaints, etc.... joining of parties; service; recoveries.

Page 548 548
548
548
548
.549
549
549
549
550
550
550 550 550
551 551
551
551 551 551
551
551 552 552 552 552 552
552 552
552 552 · 552 553 553 553 553 553 553
553
553 554 554 554
554 554 554 554

Interstate Commerce Regulations-Continued . orders of Commission to be served on agent
in Washington, etc.. suspensions, etc... compliance by carriers..
penalty for failure; recovery. prosecution.. employment of counsel by Commission;
expenses...

Page.
554' 554 554 554 555
555

enforcement by Commerce Court of orders '

of Commission other than payment

of money.

555

powers of court.........

555

copies of schedules, etc., to be preserved.as

public records...

555

receivable as evidence; effect of certified

copies.......

555

annual statistics required from railroads;

period changed...

556

penalty for noncompliance.....

556

monthly reports of earnings and expenses;

special reports.

556

penalty for failure...

556

prior proceedings, etc., not affected .

556

President to appoint commission toinvestigate issuing of stocks and bonds by.

railroad corporations in interstate

commerce .

556

experts, clerks, etc.; compensation...

556

details from Government offices...... 556

expenses; restriction ....

556

restriction on injunctions based on alleged.

unconstitutionality of State laws... 557

hearings before three judges....

557

notice to State officials, etc..

557

temporary restraining orders; prece-

dence, appeals, etc....

557

direct appeal to Supreme Court.

557

to. take effect in 60 days.

557

sections 12 and 16 immediately.

557

appropriation for enforcement of laws.. 748, 1425

prevention of shipping adulterated or mis-

branded insecticides ....

931

railway accidents to be reported monthly

by carriers; investigations, etc...

350

transportation of females for immoral prac

tices, etc., subject to ..........

82

Intestines ofAnimals,

on free list, crude, etc., not specially pro-

vided for..

73

Intoxicants to Indians,

prohibition againstgiving, etc., required in

constitution of Arizona..

569

of New Mexico........

558

Inventions,
unlicensed use by United States of, recoverable in Court of Claims............. · 851
Investigation Division, Department ofJustice, appropriation for chief, examiners, etc.. 1225
Investigation of Forest Service and Interior

Department,

creation of joint Congressional committee

for.....

871

powers, etc...

872

appropriation for expenses..

872

Investigations, etc., by Mine Bureau.

allowed foroutside parties; regulations, etc. 1419

Investigators, etc., D. C.,

limit to salaries of, engaged in scientific

work, paid from general appropria-

tions....

.440

Invoices ofImports,

to be made in currency of place whence

imported..

91

or currency actually paid, if goods pur-

chased ..

91

cxxii

INDEX.

22222222778828272282A2722 228222222227

Invoices ofImports-Continued.

Page.

contents; in triplicate....

91

goods for immediate transportation, to

be in quadruplicate...

91

to be signed by owner or shipper, if pur-

chased....

91

by manufacturer or owner, if procured

otherwise..

91

agents recognized .

91

to be produced before consular officer at or

before shipment....

91

indorsement required for goods pur-

chased ; contents of statement..........

91

ifgoods procured other than purchase. 91

statement of currency paid, if goods

purchased..

92

duly certified, required for all imports

valued over $100, except personal

effects...

92

affidavit accepted if impracticable to pro-

duce ....

92

statementinform of invoice to accompany 92

contents; verification required....

92

special regulations for periodicals, etc., en-

titled to free entry..

92

bond to produce certified , if entry made on

statement..

92

declaration to be filed with entries by...

92

acknowledgment and verification of.

92

provisions for goods not arriving..

93

by consignee, importer, or agent, when

purchased...

when not purchased .

93

by owner, when purchased .

94

by manufacturer or owner when not pur-

chased ....

95

punishment for false statements in .

95

forfeiture not affected ....

95

corrections by consignee, etc. , allowed in,

at time of entry.

95

appraisal of actual market value or whole-

sale price..

96

additional duty if appraised, exceeds de-

clared, value...

96

imposed only on articles undervalued ;

limit ..

96

not construed as penal..

96

not to be remitted ; clerical errors ex-

cepted ...

96

not to be refunded, if exported .

96

not subject to drawbacks...

96

forfeiture if appraised, 75 per cent in

excess of declared value...

96

burden of proof on claimant to rebut

presumption of fraud ...............

96

application..

96

remission or mitigation forbidden ..

96

minimum ...

96

statement of cost of production, in addition

to, if goods consigned by manufac-

turer.

96

by other person .

96

number; authentication ; disposition ..

97

iorfeiture of goods entered by false, etc.

97

punishment for making false, etc ...

97

Involuntary Bankruptcy,

persons subject to.

839

municipal, railroad , insurance, and bank-

ing corporations excepted..

893

Inyo National Forest, Cal. , and Nev.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

Iodine,

duty on, resublimed

14

on free list, crude ...

76

Todoform,

duty on..

14

*8**8**8**8*2*



Iona Island Naval Magazine, N. Y., appropriation for public works...
Iowa, assigned to eighth judicial circuit.... Des Moines, land office abolished ....... transfer of records .....
Iowa Falls, Iowa,
construction of public building authorized at..
Iowa Northern Judicial District,
counties composing eastern division . Cedar Rapids division.... central division . western division..
terms of court...
Iowa Southern Judicial District,
counties composing eastern division . central division .. western division.. southern division.. Davenport division... Ottumwa division.......
terms of court..
Iowa State Monument, Shiloh Military Park,
deficiency appropriation for replacing; reimbursement by State....
Ipecac. on free list.......
Iridium, on free list...
Iris Kaempferii or Germanica Bulbs, duty on.
"Iris," U. S. S., appropriation for repairs.
Iron (see also Iron and Steel), duty on, bar ....... billets .....
blooms, etc. ferromanganese
kentledge.. muck bars..
loops, etc .. ore...
pigs.. round..
in coils or rods. slabs, etc. .spiegeleisen... square... sulphate of.. on free list, chromate of. sulphuret of, in natural state.. productions of, classified as steel.. Iron, Cast (see Cast Iron). Iron County, Utah,
appropriation for surveying public lands in..
Iron or Steel,
duty on, anchors or parts thereof .. angles..... antifriction balls.. ball bearings.... band..... galvanized or coated . punched, etc.. bars, cold rolled , etc .. beams... boiler or plate... buckles, trouser and waistcoat. building forms.. car-truck channels.. channels..... columns and posts. cotton ties... deck and bulb beams.

Page. 1277 113 193 193 681 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 788
76 76
621
741

INDEX .

cxxiii

Iron or Steel-Continued.
duty on fishplates, railway.. forgings, not machined; etc. girders . grit, shot, and sand for abrasives.. hoop... galvanized or coated . punched, etc.... joists..... manufactures of..

Page. 23 22 22 24
22 23 22 22 25-29

tin plate, etc., not specially provided

for....

24

nail rods..

24

plate, pickled, etc..

23

with other metal imposed .

23

plates, cold rolled, not polished ..

23

polished, etc....

25

coated with tin or lead .

23

galvanized or coated .

23

rails, flat, punched ...........

23

railway bars..

23

rods, cold rolled , etc.

25

roller bearings...

22

scrap..

21

scroll..

galvanized or coated .

sheet, pickled, etc...

with other metal imposed ..

sheets, coated with tin or lead .

23

cold rolled, not polished .. polished, etc...
common or black.. ....
galvanized or coated ....

polished, planished , or glanced ..

skelp....

sheared or rolled in grooves...

22

splice bars, railway...

23

strips, cold rolled, etc.

25

structural shapes....

Trails...

23

TT..

22

wire, coated with tin, etc..

24

rods..

24

round ..

-24

no allowance for rust, etc., on, or manu-

factures of..

25

Iron Wood Bluff, Miss.,

bridge authorized across Tombigbee River

at..

897

"Iroquois," U. S. S., appropriation for repairs..

621, 1280

Irrigation (see also Reclamation Fund), census inquiries as to acreage of land under. 227
asto location, extent, etc., of enterprises. 227

contracts for impounding excess waters of

reclamation projects authorized with

systems under Carey Act....

925

cooperation with water users for reservoirs,

ditches, and canals for distributing

water......

926

entries on, projects notallowed before units

of acreage and water charges fixed .. 836

lands, etc., no longer needed for works of,

to be sold....

895

appraisal, etc.; limitation ....

895

proceeds to credit of project..

895

modification of applications, etc., under

public notices, permitted .

902

power sites to be reserved within projects

in Indian reservations....

858

pending legislation for projects not au-

thorized..

858

temporary withdrawal of public lands

pending applications for, under

· Carey Act.

237

Irrigation- Continued.

Pago.

temporary withdrawals of public lands to

be reserved for..

847

trust allotments to Indians in reclamation

projects.....

860

Irrigation, Indian Reservations,

appropriation for expenses..

270, 1059

restricted to general work.

270

no work to be started until cost, etc.,

approved......

270

maximum for projects, not specially

provided for...

270

detailed statement of all systems to be

transmitted to Congress..

270

annual report of expenditures for pre-

ceding year required ..

270

expenditures for preliminary surveys,

etc., allowed ...

270, 1059

consultations, etc. , with other branches

of the public service..

270, 1059

existing agreements with Reclamation

Service not prohibited ....

270, 1059

unexpended balances made avail-

able

1059

not to be used for systems specifically

appropriated for..

1059

investigation of power and reservoir

sites ....

1059

forinspectors; traveling, etc. , expenses. 270, 1059

superintendents authorized.

271, 1059

for constructing system on Gila River

Indian Reservation.

272, 1062

for Colorado River, Ariz., pumping

plant.....

273, 1063

for constructing system on Fort Hall

Indian Reservation, Idaho ..... 274, 1063

charges on lands in private owner:

ship..

274

for Fort Belknap Indian Reservation,

Mont.; reimbursable.....

277, 1066

for constructing system on Blackfeet In-

dian Reservation, Mont.; repay-

ment..

277, 1066

for constructing system on Flathead Indian Reservation, Mont.; repay-

ment.

277,1066

forcompletingsystems onlands of Uncom-

pahgre, Uintah, and White River

Utes, Utah..

285, 1074

for extension of system to Indian allot-

ments, Yakima, Wash...

286, 1075

for expenses, Shoshone, Wyo.; repay-

ment..

288, 1076

for costs for increased allotments to In-

dians of Yuma, Ariz..

1063

Colorado River, Ariz..

1063

for Klamath, at Modoc Point, Oreg.;

repayment......

1071

detailed statement to be made of estimated

cost, expenditures, etc., of all proj-

ects, specifically authorized ........

272

annual report of all expenditures for pre-

ceding year..

272

Irrigation Investigations,

appropriation for expenses of............................... 438, 1262 Irrigation Projects,
leaves ofabsence allowed homestead entry-

men in, until water is furnished... 864

not deducted from required time of resi-

dence..

864

Ishpeming, Mich.,

appropriation for public building...

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized; mineral rights re-

leased.....

686

cxxiv

INDEX.

Isinglass, duty on. Japanese....
Island End River, Mass.,

Page. 14
14

dredging channel across Naval Hospital grounds, Chelsea, Mass., authorized. 369

Isles of Shoals, Me. and N. H.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

Isleta Indian Pueblo, N. Mex.,

appropriation for bridge across Rio Grande

at..

1062

Isthmian Canal (see also Canal Zone),

appropriation for salaries of officers, etc., in

United States...

771, 1449

for incidental expenses, rents, supplies,

etc., in United States.

771, 1449

additional to Auditor for War Depart-

ment...

771, 1449

for commissioners, officers, and employ-

ees on the Isthmus.

771, 1449

for labor on the Isthmus .

771, 1449

for materials, etc. , for construction... 771, 1449

for incidental, etc., expenses on the

Isthmus..

771, 1449

for salaries, civil administration depart-

ment.

772, 1450

for labor, civil administration depart-

ment..

772, 1450

for contingent expenses, supplies, etc.,

civil administration...

772, 1450

for salaries, sanitation department... 772, 1450

for labor, sanitation department..... 772, 1450

for materials, contingent expenses, etc.,

sanitation department...

772, 1450

for relocating Panama Railroad..... 772, 1450

restriction on longevity pay, etc... 772,1451

reimbursement to Panama Railroad for

marine or fire losses....

772

annual subsidy from railroad not re-

quired...

772

estimates to be accompanied with de-

tailed statement of employees, ma-

terials, etc., required...

773

employees and compensation restricted

to estimates, etc ..

1450

interchangeable expenditures, limit.. 1451

for constructing seacoast batteries on

Canal Zone....

1451

for purchase, etc., of seacoast cannon.. 1451

settlement of claims for injuries, etc.,

to employees .

1452

deficiency appropriation for administration

expenses..

211

additional issue of bonds for completion of,

authorized...

117

President authorized to enter into contracts

for completion of.

130

Isthmian Canal Commission,

appropriation for salaries and expenses. 771, 1449

to issue articles for relief of Costa Rica

earthquake sufferers.....

367

Istle,

duty on, cables and cordage ..

49

dressed, etc...

51

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory

duty..

73

not manufactured , not specially provided

for....

76

Italian Cloths,
duty on woolen, cotton, etc. , warp... not specially provided for....
Italy, appropriation for ambassador to. for secretary of embassy. for second secretary .

54 54
337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028

Italy-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for participation in exposi-

tions at Rome and Turin ...

345

deficiency appropriation for relief of suffer-

ers, etc., from earthquake in..

790

thanks for gift of engravings, to be con-

veyed to..

875

Itawamba County, Miss.,

may bridge Tombigbee River at Iron Wood

Bluff..

897

Ivanhoe Furnace Corporation, may dam New River, Ivanhoe, Va........ 922
Ivanhoe, Va., dam authorized across New River, at..... 922

Ivory,

duty on dice, balls, etc....

66

manufactures of, not specially provided

for......

70

manufactures of vegetable, not specially.

provided for...

70

on free list, tusks, in natural state, etc............ 76

vegetable, in natural state....

76

Ivy Root, duty on unmanufactured, cut into blocks.. 33 :

J.

Jackson, Ky.,
appropriation for public building.. acquiring site and erecting public building
at, authorized ... terms of court at; rooms required .

1374
685 1113

Jackson, Mich.,
appropriation for public building.. Jackson, Miss.,
terms of courtat

1374 1116

Jackson, Ohio, appropriation for public building................. 1374

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

691

Jackson, Tenn.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc...

207

terms of court at....

1125

Jackson's Hole, Wyo. ,

appropriation for feeding, protecting, etc. ,

elk in.....

1258

Jacksonville, Fla.,

terms of court at.

1108

Jacksonville, Fla., Customs District, name of Saint Johns district changed to... 592

Jacquard Figured Upholstery Goods,

duty on cotton, etc....

47

Jacquard Loom Designs,

duty on ruled cards or paper........

63

Jail, D. C.,

appropriation for warden ....

405

for support of prisoners.

405

deficiency appropriation for support of

prisoners, etc.

209, 788

for improvements .

786

for maintenance..

1299

combined with Washington Asylum........... 1003 Jails (see Penitentiaries).

Jalap,

on free list..

76

Jamaica Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvements of; condi-

tion.

634.

James River, Mo.,

construction of dam authorized in the Big

Bend of..

929

James River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 640, 938

for lighting....

751

INDEX .

CXXV

Jamestown, N. Dak., appropriation for public building... acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
Jamestown, N. Y., terms ofcourt at.
Jamieson, Honorable William D., deficiency appropriation for contested election expenses, House of Representatives

Page. 1374 691 1120
806

Jersey City, N. J.,
appropriation for public building.. limit of cost increased, public building;
additional ground. Jet,
duty on. vases, etc... on free list, unmanufactured ... Jewel Boxes,
duty on, leather.............. Jewelry,

Page. 1374
678
21 76
68

Janitors, Public Buildings,

duty on, and parts thereof; of silver, etc.. 67

appropriation for..

714, 1391

on gold orplatinum....

68

deficiency appropriation for............ 808, 1320 Jewels,

Janitors to Committees, House of Representa-

duty on watch and clock.....

31

tives, appropriation for.................
Japan, appropriation for ambassador to..... - for secretary of embassy..... for Japanese secretary of embassy. for second secretary. for third secretary..

475, 1177
337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1028

Joe Flogger Shoal, Delaware River,

limit of cost increased, light and fog signal

near...

535

Johnson City, Tenn.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home.

735, 1411

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers'Home.

211, 1301

for assistant Japanese secretary.

338, 1029 Johnson County, Wyo.,

for student interpreters...

339, 1029 sale of tract of public lands to.

237

for cost of tuition..........

339, 1029 Johnson, Martin W., late a Senator,

·

for quarters for student interpreters.. 339, 1030 deficiency appropriation forpay to widowof 802

forground rent for embassy, Tokyo ... 340, 1030 | Johnson, William G., alias Tay-cum-e-ge-shig,

forinterpreters at consulates................. .. 346, 1035 payment to heirs of, from Chippewa tribal

Japan Matting,

funds....

330

duty on. Japan Varnish,
duty on.

49 Johnston, Douglas H.,

payment from funds of Chickasaw Nation

15

to, as governor.

282

Japanese Isinglass, duty on..
Japanned Leather, duty on.
Jars,
duty on glass, plain..... glass, decorated, etc .......
Jasmine or Jasimine,
on free list, oil.

88 27

Johnstown, N.Y.,

14 construction of public building authorized

at..

682

68 Johnstown, Pa.,

appropriation for public building..

1374

19 Joint Committee on Alaskan Investigation,

19 appropriation for expenses...

1444

composition; duties; report..

1444

77 Joint Commission on Public Printing and

Jasper, Ala.,

Binding,

appropriation for public building....... 1374 authority continued; appointment............. 1444

acquiring site for public building at, au-

appropriation for expenses..

1444

thorized ..

688 Joint Committee on Printing,

terms ofcourt; rooms required................

1106

Jefferson Barracks, Mo.,

additional public buildings authorized at.... 697

Jefferson City, Mo., terms of court at.

.... 1117

appropriation for inspection of paper, etc.,

for..

*1444

three Senators, members of, to be on print-

ing investigation commission..

1444

Joint Committee on the Library,

Jefferson County, Ky.,

appropriation for establishing fish-cultural

station in .

1440

Jefferson National Forest, Mont. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249 Jefferson Street NW., D. C.,
portion of, stricken from highways plan ... 240 Jefferson, Tex.,

appropriation for procuring bust of late

Chief Justice Fuller...

1427

for procuring oil portrait of late Chief

Justice Fuller..

1427

replica of statue of Gen. Von Steuben

authorized for presentation to Ger-

many, under direction of Secretary

of State and........

605

appropriation for improvement of water-

Joint Congressional Commission on Surety

way between Shreveport, La., and.. 650

Bonds,

terms of court at...

1126 deficiency appropriation for expenses of

Jellico, Tenn., appropriationfor public building

inquiries as to rates of premiums,

1374

etc.

891, 1317

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Joint Congressional Committee on Forest Serv

thorized ...". Jellies,

692

ice and Public Lands,

creation of; matters to be investigated.... 871

duty on.

38 powers; attendance of witnesses....

872

Jemez National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Jennings, La.,

appropriation for public building.

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

685

criminating testimony not to excuse wit-

nesses..

872

punishment for not testifying.

872

officials may appearin person or by counsel 872 hearings; report of evidence and findings.. 872

appropriation for expenses...

872

Jennison, George,

deficiency appropriation for extra services

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1318

of employees...

804

cxxvi

INDEX .

Joint Rates, etc., Interstate Commerce,

Page.

apportionment of, to be determined by

Commission on failure of carriers to

agree.....

551

new, may be examined by Commission.. 552

suspension until decision........

552

through, may be established by Commis-

sion on failure of carriers..

552

Joint Stock Companies, excise tax levied on net incomes of....... 112

Joists,

duty on, iron or steel..

22

Jones, Captain Clarence H., lineal rank in Field Artillery corrected .... 202

Jones, J. H., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 127, 803, 1315

Jones, John Paul,

appropriation for completing resting place *for body of, at Naval Academy.... 1283

for expenses of unveiling statue of...... 1404

Jonesboro, Ark., terms of court at

603, 1107

Joplin, Mo.,

terms of court at.

1117

Jordan River, Miss., appropriation for improvement of.
Joseph's Band, Nez Perce Indians, Wash.,
appropriation for support, etc. , of.... deficiency appropriation for support ... Joss Stick or Joss Light, on free list...

647
286, 1075 811
76

Judge-Advocate-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers; lon-

gevity..

.. 248, 1042

Judge-Advocate-General's Office, Navy Depart-

ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc..

506, 1209

Judge-Advocate-General's Office, War Depart-

ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

502, 1204

Judges,

appropriation for circuit ..

529, 1233

for district ...

529, 1233

for retired.

529, 1233

for expenses outside of district .

750

for expenses attending circuit courts of

appeals...

750

for expenses outside of official resi-

dence .

1427

for law books for.

1234

deficiency appropriation for additional,

Maryland and Ohio northern and

southern districts ...

799

for additional, New York eastern dis-

trict....

890

additional, authorized Maryland district.. 201

for New York eastern district.

838

for Ohio northern district .

202

for Ohio southern district..

202

Judgments,

deficiency appropriation for paying,

United States courts.... 128, 217, 1319

for paying, Court of Claims...

129,

218, 807, 891, 1319

for paying, against District of Columbia. 209, 787, 1299

for paying, in Indian Depredations 218, 808, 1320

for paying, against internal revenue

officers .

219, 225, 809, 1321

Judicial Circuits,

constitution of districts of the States into.. 1131

allotment of circuit judges to ....

1131

Chief and associate justices of Supreme

Court..

1131

Judicial Code,

Page.

CH. 1. DISTRICT COURTS- ORGANIZATION.
judge to be appointed for each district.... additional for northern California, northern Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Jersey, eastern New York, northern and southern Ohio, Oregon, eastern and western Pennsylvania, and western Washington.. three, for southern New York.....

1087
1087 1087

vacancy in office of senior, Maryland, not

to be filled ..

1087

one, for eastern and western South Caro-

lina; for eastern and middle Tennes-

see; for northern and southern Mis-

sissippi; and for middle and northern

Alabama..

1087

to reside in district for which appointed . 1087

punishment for violation....

1087

salaries....

1087

clerks, authorized; appointment, etc., of deputies...
criers and bailiffs. preservation of records...
change of terms not to affect pending cases. continuance of cases beyond regular term.
always open for equity and admiralty business .....

1087 1088 1088 1088 1088
1088

issue ofprocess, orders, etc., in chambers, etc ..
monthly adjournments for criminal cases.. special terms allowed ...
adjournment in absence of judge... designation of other judge in temporary ab-
sence.. from another circuit.
record of.....

1088 1088 1088 1088
1089 1089 1089

for disposition of accumulated or urgent business...
holding of separate courts.. by Chief Justice in absence of circuit
judge or justice .. new appointments and, authorized ...
by senior circuit judge when necessary. of circuit judge to hold district court. power, etc. , of designated judge.. disqualification of judge to sit..

1089 1089
1089 1089 1089 1089 1090 1090

on ground of personal bias or prejudice .. designation of substitute... process, etc., to continue when office of
judge vacant.... division of business in districts with more
than one judge. CH. 2. DISTRICT COURTS-JURISDICTION.

1090 1090
1090
1090

original jurisdiction; in suits brought by United States..
between citizens claiming land grants from different States..
under Constitution, laws, or treaties.... between citizens of different States...

1091
1091 . 1091 1091

between citizens and foreign States, etc. 1091

restriction on promissory notes, etc ... 1091

all crimes under Federal laws..

1091

admiralty and maritime cases; seizures;

prizes and condemnation .

1091

slave-trade suits....

1092

revenue cases; except customs appeals

cases ..

1092

postal suits .

1092

patent, trade-mark, and copyright cases. 1092

commerce regulations; except Commerce

Court cases.

1092

penalties and forfeitures under Federal

laws.....

1092

suits on debentures.

1092

INDEX .

.cxxvii

Judicial Code- Continued.

Page.

CH. 2. DISTRICT COURTS--JURISDICTION- con.

original jurisdiction ; damage suits for in-

juries under Federal laws....

1092

civilrights, damages from deprivation of. 1092

knowledge of conspiracy, etc ....

1092

redress for deprivation of.

1092

recovery of office; limitation...

1092

national-bank cases; citizenship of banks 1092

by aliens for torts only, under interna-

tional law or treaties...

1093

consular cases ...

1093

bankruptcy matters..

1093

claims against United States, concurrent

with Court of Claims; limitations ... 1093

exceptions; war claims, pensions, offi-

cial services..

1093

time for presenting; rights of married

women, minors, etc..

1093

injunctions to prevent unlawful inclo-

sure of public lands ..

1093

immigration and contract-labor law cases 1093

antitrust suits ...

1093

in actions in Indian allotments..

1094

suits for partition where United States is

tenant in common ...

1094

appeals from commissioners in Chinese

exclusion cases.....

1094

Yellowstone Park in jurisdiction of Wyo-

ming district...

1094

crimes on Indian reservations in South

Dakota to be tried, etc., in district

court ..

1094

CH. 3. DISTRICT COURTS- REMOVAL OF

CAUSES.

from State courts; cases under Constitu-

tion, laws, and treaties.....

1094

by nonresident defendants..

1094

between citizens of different States.. 1094

for local prejudice.....

1094

separation of defendants..

1095

remanding to State court before trial

if justice not denied .

1095

no appeal allowed ...

1095

damage suits against carriers, not

included..

1095

procedure for removal; surety for costs,

etc ...

1095

stay ofproceedings in State court..

1095

suits under grants of land from different

States..

1096

suits involving civil rights.

1096

stay of proceedings in State court.... 1096

bail, etc., continued ...

1096

copies ofall proceedings to defendant. 1096

procedure; on refusal of clerk to

furnish.

1096

dismissal if petitioner fails to file

copies, etc..

1096

removal of petitioner from custody of

State court..

1097

suits against revenue officials..

1097

officers of Congress.....

1097

procedure; bail, etc., continued

1097

certiorari to State court for record and

proceedings..

1097

habeas corpus proceedings; duty of

marshal.

1097

plaintiff required to proceed; judg-

ment of non prosequitur on failure .. 1098

suits by aliens against nonresident

United States civil officers..

1098

proceedings on affidavit ofrecord if clerk

refuse, etc., to deliver..

1098

attachments, etc. , to continue to await

trial..

1098

Judicial Code-Continued.

Page.

. 3. DISTRICT COURTS- REMOVAL OF

CAUSES -Continued.

from State courts; continuance of prior

bonds, etc..

1098

injunctions, orders, etc..

1098

cases improperly brought to beremanded

or dismissed .

1098

proceedings in suits removed ..

1098

punishment for clerk failing to furnish

copy of record, etc ..

1099

certiorari to State court to make return

of record ...

1099

copy of record required of prosecutor

on failure of clerk .

1099

dismissal for default.

1099

proceedings; pleadings, etc..

1099

. 4. DISTRICT COURTS- MISCELLANEOUS

PROVISIONS ..

venue of capital cases..

1100

offenses on high seas, etc.....

1100

begun in one district and completed in

another....

1100

suits for recovery of penalties or for-

feitures

1100

internal-revenue tax cases ...

1100

proceedings on seizures on the high seas,

etc ......

1100

for condemnation of insurrectionary

property...

1100

for forfeiture of seizure, etc..

1100

suits for infringement of patents..

1100

proceedings to enjoin Comptroller of the

Currency.

1100

procedure against several defendants; ef-

fect ofjudgment, etc.....

1101

civil suits to be in district of plaintiff or

defendant ...

1101

venue of suits, not local, in States having

more than one district..

1101

indistrictshavingmore thanone division. 1101

criminal prosecutions ......

1101

suits removed from State courts...

1101

venue of suits of a local nature.

1102

jurisdiction where property lics partly in different districts of same State... 1102

authority of receiver where property lies

in different States..

1102

proceedings to enforce liens, etc., in case

of absent defendants...

1102

reopening on appearance in one year.. 1103

transfer of civil causes on agreement to

other divisions of same district..... 1103

procedure on creation of new districts or

divisions....

1103

liens not affected; enforcement, etc.. 1103

commissioners to administer oaths to ap-

praisers of seizures, etc ..

1104

transfer of Territorial court records on ad-

mission as State..

1104

enforcement by district judge..........

1104

disposition of pending cases..

1104

receivers, etc., to manage property accord-

ing to State laws....

1104

punishment for violations..

1104

suits against; special equity jurisdic-

tion ...

1104

disqualifications for court officials..

1105

restriction on appointing clerks as receivers

or masters..

1105

CH. 5. DISTRICT COURTS-DISTRICTS, AND PRO-

VISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR

STATES .

judicial districts..............

1105

territory, terms, and special provisions re-

lating to the several States..... 1105-1130

cxxviii

INDEX

Judicial Code-Continued . CH. 6. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS.
nine judicial circuits established . districts included ..

Page.
1131 1131

circuit court of appeals created; constitu-

tion, etc....

1131

circuit judges authorized ; appointment,

salaries, etc..

1131

allotment of Supreme Court Justices to

circuits...

1131

service of Supreme Court Justices and dis-

trict judges..

1132

presiding judge.

1132

disqualification of district judge..

1132

designation of terms used .

1132

seals, forms of writs, rules, etc...

1132

service of marshals..

1132

clerks, deputies, etc.

1132

terms, annual .

1132

terms designated, at Atlanta, Fort Worth,

Montgomery, Denver, Cheyenne,

and Saint Paul..

1133

appeals, etc., in Georgia, Texas, and

Alabama...

1133

from Beaumont, Tex., to New Orleans.. 1133
Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, or New Mexico to Denver or Cheyenne..... 1133

court rooms to be in public buildings..... 1133

leases elsewhere permitted...

1133

jurisdiction to review final decisions of

district courts.....

1133

to entertain appeals from injunctions,

etc., of district courts....

1134

proceedings on appeal.

1134

in bankruptcy cases...

1134

in ninth circuit, to hear appeals, etc.,

from United States court for China.. 1134

powers ofjudges, additional..

1134

to review judgments, etc., of Arizona and

New Mexico supreme courts..

1134

effect of judgments, etc. , in Alaskan cases . 1134

certification of questions to Supreme

Court.....

1134

appeals, etc., may be heard at San

Francisco, Portland, or Seattle ..... 1135

CH. 7. COURT OF CLAIMS.

established; appointment of judges; salaries 1135

seal; sessions; quorum, etc...

1136

officials; salaries; chief clerk, bond, duties,

etc ..

1136

annual statement to Congress of all judgments; copy of decisions to heads of
departments, etc.. Senators, Members of Congress, and Dele-
gates not allowed to practice in.......... punishment for violation... jurisdiction, to hear and determine claims
founded upon contracts with United States.

1136 11361136
1136

for damages, not sounding in tort, against

United States..

1136

exceptions: War claims, pensions,

claims rejected prior to March 3, 1887 1137

counterclaims, etc. , of the Government

against claimants...

1137

no suit allowed for services until

account acted on by proper officer.. 1137 .unless officer fails to act in six

months......

1137

claims by disbursing officers for property

captured, etc...

1137

judgments of set-offs and counterclaims . 1137

enforcement..

1137

decree as to amount of loss by disbursing

officers; credit in accounts...

1137

Judicial Code-Continued . CH. 7. COURT OF CLAIMS continued.
jurisdiction of claims referred by executive departments, etc.......
proceedings.... payment of judgment.. determination of facts in matters submitted
by Congress... report offacts, laches, conclusions, etc..
judgment, if injurisdiction of court..... further hearings...
allowance of costs, if Government put in issue the right to recover..
exclusion of claims growing out of treaties. pending in other courts.
reciprocal right of aliens to prosecute claims....
all claims to be filed in six years..
all rights ofmarried women, minors, etc., preserved...
rules of practice; punishment for contempt..
administering oaths, taking acknowledgments, etc., authorized ..
petitions, details of requirements.. verification by affidavit..... dismissal if loyalty disproved .
loyalty to be proved affirmatively.
jurisdiction to determine claims for proceeds of property taken after June 1, 1865, etc...
return of proceeds... commissioners authorized to take testi-
mony....
evidence to be furnished by departments and Congressional committees ..............
discretion of department... dismissal if facts in petition show no
grounds for relief.. examination of claimant; compliance..
place for taking testimony; issue of subpoenas; cross-examinations, etc.....
examinations under oath; payment of fees, etc ..
forfeiture of claims for fraud ; findings to specify the fact....
no Fourth of July claim to be allowed if willfully made for more than amount justly due...
new trials permitted on sufficient grounds. upon request of United States; stay of judgment allowed...
cost of printing record taxed against losing party; payment....
restriction on allowance of interest.
payment of judgment to be discharge in full....
final judgment a bar to future claim. to hear petition for settlement of unadjusted
accounts, bonds, etc.. notice to department, etc.. finality ofjudgment; appeal.. action on judgment to be brought in
three years, or barred...
appeals; procedure... appeals allowed to the Supreme Court in
Indian cases, etc..
Attorney-General to report to Congress all suits on bonds, etc..
loyalty a jurisdictional fact in claims for supplies, etc., furnished during civil war..
appearance of Attorney-General or assistants for defense in claims.
of witnesses....

Page.
1137 1138 1138
1138 1138 1138 1138
1138 1138 1138
1139 1139
1139
1139
1139 1139. 1139 1139 1139
1139 1140
1140
1140 1140
1140 1140 1140
1140
1141
1141 1141 1141
1141 1141
1141 1141
1141 1142 1142
1142 1142
1142
1142
1142
1142 1142

INDEX .

cxxix.

Judicial Code-Continued. CH. 7. COURT OF CLAIMS - continued.
appearance of witnesses; no exclusion on account of color or interest in cause.
reports to Congress continued until acted
upon..... CH. 8. COURT OF CUSTOMS APPEALS,
created, to consist of five judges; appointment and salaries, etc.
quorum; temporary vacancies.. always open; sessions elsewhere; allowance
for travel, etc. , expenses.. marshal; appointment and salary; service
by district marshals; contingent expenses...

Page.
1143 1143
1143 1143 1143
1144

clerk; appointment, duties, and powers;

salary; restriction .

1144

costs and fees; limit, accounting, etc.... 1144

reporter; salary and duties; publication of

decisions..

1144

rooms to be provided in public buildings;

leases elsewhere...

1144

bailiffs and messengers authorized; restric-

tion on outside rooms....

1145

general powers; rules and procedure... 1145 extent of power to review decisions, etc. 1145

exclusive jurisdiction to review final deci-

sions ofBoard ofGeneral Appraisers. 1145

judgments final .....

1145

appeals from Board of General Appraisers

to be reviewed only by .

1145

cases pending in Supreme Court, etc., excepted..... 1145

reviewofcases not yet appealed orpending. 1145

transfer of pending cases; completion of

testimony..

1145

appeals from Board of General Appraisers;

time limit....

1146

additional time for Alaskan and insular

cases....

1146

applications; record, etc., to be trans-

mitted....

1146

finality of decisions.

1146

calendar; hearings...

1146

CH. 9. COMMERCE COURT,

created, to consist of five circuit judges ... 1146

designation and assignment; period of

service.......

1146

quorum; expense allowance..

1147

additional circuit judges; assignment,

powers, etc....

1147

clerk and marshal; office to be in Washing-

ton...

1147

deputies; salaries; costs and fees.....

1147

always open; sessions outside of Washing-

ton; expenses therefor....

1147

courtrooms outside of Washington; leases

permitted.....

1148

.

assignment of judges to other duty; filling

temporary vacancies .

1148

powers of court and judges; issue of writs

and process....

1148

procedure; service of process, etc.... 1148

jurisdiction, to enforce orders of Interstate

Commerce Commission...

1148

except payment of money.

1148

to enjoin, etc., orders of Commission.... 1148

to prevent unjust discriminations by

common carriers....

1148

to issue mandamus writs to common car-

riers....

1149

limited to circuit court powers....

1149

exclusive in foregoing; cases excepted.. 1149
suits to enjoin, etc., order of Commission, to be against United States...... 1149

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-102

Judicial Code-Continued .

Page.

CH. 9. COMMERCE COURT-continued.

temporary suspensions of orders, etc., to

prevent irreparable loss ................

1149

time limit; extension....

1149

filing petitions for relief; service of copies. 1149

answers; relief if no answer filed...

1149

taking testimony; practice and proce-

dure....

1150

appeals to Supreme Court; no stay of

judgment unless Supreme Court so

direct....

1150

on injunctions; priority of.......

1150

United States substituted for Interstate

Commerce Commission in suits..... 1150

to intervene when public interests in-

volved..

1150

Attorney General to control Government

cases in..

1150

special attorneys to assist; compensa-

tion....

1150

appearance of Interstate Commerce

Commission, etc..

1150

parties interested may intervene; rights

of intervenors ..

1151

complainants before Commission may ap-

pear, etc., in.......

1151

conduct of cases prior to opening of court.. 1151

appeals, etc...

1151

pending cases to be transferred; exception. 1151

status of; original papers, etc., to be

transmitted..

1151

CH. 10. SUPREME COURT,

to consist of Chief and eight associate jus-

tices; quorum..

1152

precedence of justices.

1152

filling temporary vacancy in office of

Chief Justice...

1152

salaries; officers...

1152

clerk; bond required; deputies, tenure, etc. 1152

to keep records of old court of appeals.. 1153

fees to be charged by clerk..

1153

marshal, salary; duties; assistants, étc..... 1153

reporter; duties; salary and expenses;

volumes of reports to be furnished;

conditions ..

1153

distribution of reports by Attorney-Gen-

eral......

1154

of digests.

1154

additional copies..

1155

Federal Reporter, etc.

1155

annual term; special; adjournment for

lack of quorum...

1156

original and exclusive jurisdictional cases. 1156

power to issue writs of prohibition and

mandamus...

1156

issues of fact to be tried by jury.

1156

appellate jurisdiction in special cases..

1156

writs of error to State courts...

1156

appeals and writs of error from district

courts ....

1157

action in cases certified for instructions

from circuit courts of appeals ..... 1157

certiorari to circuit courts of appeals of

cases for review, etc.....

1157

writs of error and appeals from circuit

courts of appeals.....

1157

appeals allowed from Court of Claims of de-

cisions adverse to United States;

limit of time for..

1157

writs of error and appeals in Porto Rican

cases ..

1157

from supreme courts of Arizona and New

Mexico......

1158

from supreme court of Hawaii ..

1158

CXXX

INDEX.

Judicial Code-Continued.

Page.

OH. 10. SUPREME COURT continued .

writs of error and appeals from district

court for Alaska...

1158

from supreme court of Philippine Is-

lands.

1158

from Territorial supreme courts after ad-

mission as States ..

1158

from court of appeals of District of Co-

lumbia; review of cases made final

in..

1159

appellate jurisdiction in bankruptcy cases. 1159 jurisdiction in cases certified from other

courts .

1160

precedence of criminal cases from State

courts ...

1160

taxing costs of printing record in cases..... 1160

admission of women to practice.....

1160

CH. 11. PROVISIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN

ONE COURT.

cases where jurisdiction of United States

courts is exclusive to State.

1161

crimes under Federal laws....

1161

penalties and forfeitures under United

States laws..

1161

admiralty and maritime civil cases..

1161

seizures and prizes under Federal laws.. 1161

patent and copyright cases....

1161

bankruptcy proceedings .

1161

where a State is a party.

1161

except with its citizens.

1161

against diplomatic and consular officers. 1161

form of oath for judges......

1161

judges barred from practice of the law.... 1161

travel, etc., expenses of judges attending

court, etc., other than at place ofresi-

dence..

1161

residence of judges specified..

1161

Commerce Court at Washington, D. C. 1161

salary for retired judges..

1161

issue of writs of ne exeat..

1162

power to issue writs of scire facias, etc.... 1162

temporary restraining orders allowed on

motions for injunctions ...

1162

injunctions may be granted by judges.. : 1162

issue by Supreme CourtJustices limited . 1162

by circuit judge in absence of district

judge ......

1162

to stay proceedings in State courts con-

fined to bankruptcy cases..

1162

restriction on issuing injunctions to restrain enforcing of State laws.................. 1162

threejudges; procedure; notice to State. 1162

temporary order to prevent irreparable

loss, etc...

1162

direct appeal to Supreme Court...

1163

equity suits not allowed if remedy at law

may be had .......

1163

administration of oaths...

1163

punishment for contempt; cases desig-

nated .

1163

authority to grant new trials..

1163

to hold to security of peace, and good

behavior...

1163

enforcing awards, etc. , of foreign consuls.. 1163

issue of process, etc.; payment of ex-

penses....

1163

assistance of marshals..

1164

personal pleadings, etc., by parties..... 1164

court officials barred from acting in cases

before the court....

1164

punishment for violations ....

1164

CH. 12. JURIES.
jurors, qualifications and exemptions similar to those of State courts........ 1164

Judicial Code-Continued.

Paga.

CH. 12. JURIES-continued.

jurors, drawings; commissioners and their qualifications .......
selections for..
no race, etc., disqualifications.. service of venire, by person..
by mail ..

1164 1164 1165 1165 1165

selection of petit jurors from bystanders... 1165

return of special juries conformable to

State laws.

1165

grand juries, constitution, etc... foreman of; powers...
summoned only when needed.. second, allowed when required in large
cities ...

1165 1165 1165
1165

imprisonment before indictment, etc. , not extended ...
discharge when not necessary. ..... restriction on service as petit jurors... peremptory challenges in treason or capital
cases... other felonies . other civil or criminal cases..
trial of, by the court.....
juries for polygamy prosecutions..... disqualifications; questions under oath..
CH. 13. GENERAL PROVISIONS. circuit courts abolished...

1165 1166 1166
1166 1166 1166 1166 1166 1166
1167

all papers, etc., to be delivered to district court clerks..
moneys to be turned over.. journals, etc., made part of 'district
court records..
powers of clerks, transferred to district court clerks..

1167 1167
1167
1167

pending suits and proceedings continued

in district courts.

1167

powers of, transferred to district courts.. 1167

references to laws revised hereby deemed

to refer to this Act..

1167

construction of terms used .

1167

laws revised by this Act considered as

continued..

1167

arrangement of sections no inference of

legislative construction.....

1167

title designated as The Judicial Code...... 1168 CH. 14. REPEALING PROVISIONS.

lawsrepealed, sections ofRevised Statutes. removal of cases from State courts.....
juries in polygamy prosecutions.. Bowman Act.. appeals from District of Columbia and
Territorial supreme courts.. Tucker Act..

1168 1168 1168 1168
1168 1168

modifying ' act removing causes from

State courts..

1168

limiting criminal cases in Supreme

Court...

1169

suits for official services..

1169

appeals in interlocutory orders.

1169

acts prior to 1911, relating to judges,

districts, etc......

1169

establishing Commerce Court..

1169

acts superseded hereby....

1169

portions not affected continued.

1169

effect of Act on tenure of office of present

incumbents....

1169

pending suits, etc., not affected .

1169

prosecution ofprior offenses, etc., continued 1169 ·

to take effect January 1, 1912...

1169

Judicial Districts,

division of the States into ... Judicial Expenscs,
appropriations for.......

1105-1130 529, 1232

INDEX .

cxxxi

Judicial Officers, appropriation for books for..........

Page. 1234, 1419

Juglandium Oil;

on free list...

77

Juices,

duty on, fruit, etc., not specially provided

for...

41

on free list, lemon, lime, and sour orange.. 76

Juneau, Alaska,

appropriation for public building, execu-

tive mansion...

1374

for post-office and customhouse.

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..........

684

Juniper,

on free list, oil............

77

Junk,

on free list, old..

76

Jupiter Inlet, Fla., preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Jurors, United States Courts, appropriation for fees.. deficiency appropriation for fees ....

750, 1426 812

qualifications, and exemptions of, similar

to highest court of the State....

1164

drawings; appointment of commissioner;

qualifications....

1164

to be returned from various parts of district

as court directs...

1164

no disqualification onaccount ofrace, etc.. 1165

service ofvenirefor; personal; by mail.. 1165 completion of panelfrom bystanders .. 1165

specialjuries to conform to State laws.... 1165

grand juries, number necessary, vacancies

not to be filled from bystanders.... 1165

foreman to be appointed; powers..

1165

not to besummoned unless needed ; serv-

ice......

1165

second allowed when required in large

cities......

267, 1165

imprisonment before indictment, etc.,

not extended..

267, 1165

discharge when not necessary..

1165

petit, not to serve more than one term in a

year....

1166

peremptory challenges allowed in treason

and capital offenses..

1166

other felonies; all other cases..

1166

to be without aid of triers...

1166

disqualifications in polygamy trials..

1166

Jury Commissioners, United States Courts,

appropriation for compensation...... 750, 1427 Justices ofthe Peace,
appropriation for fees to, acting as commissioners, United States courts.... 750, 1426

Jule,

duty on, bags, of plain single-yarn fabrics.. 51

carpets, mats, or rugs..

49

hose, hydraulic or flume....

49

plain woven fabrics of single yarns..

50

sacks, of plain single-yarn fabrics...

51

yarns...

49

on free list, not dressed or manufactured... 76

Jute, and Manufactures of

Schedule J, Tariff of 1909..

-48

Jute Butts,

on free list, not dressed or manufactured... 76

Jute-Manufacturing Machinery,

duty on.

32

Juvenile Court, D. C.,

appropriation for judge, probation officers,

etc..

403, 994

for jurors; expenses, etc..

403, 994

moneys paid for support of abandoned

wife, etc., to be deposited with collector of taxes; disbursements.... 403

Juvenile Court, D. C.-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for actingjudge 785, 1297

for incidental expenses..

1297

K.

Kahului Harbor, Hawaii,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tions .......

666, 952

Kaibab National Forest, Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of.. 427, 1249

Kainite,

on free list..

76

Kalamazoo River, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of....... 655,947 Kale Seed,

duty on..

37

Kalispell, Mont.,

appropriation for public building..

1374

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

690

Kanawha River,W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of......

653

Kane County, Utah,

appropriation for surveying public lands in 741

Kangaroo Skins,

duty on dressed and finished ...

68

Kaniksu National Forest, Idaho and Wash.,
appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249 Kansas,

assigned to eighth judicial circuit........ 1131
consent of Congress to agreement as to boundary in, and jurisdiction over, Missouri River between Missouri and 881
Kansas City, Kans.,

appropriation for public building...... 705, 1374

for rent...

1374

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc..

207

limit of cost increased, public building.

677

terms of court at..

1112

time extended forbridgingKansas Riverat. 191

Kansas City, Mexico andOrient Railway Com-

pany,

maybridge Rio Grande, Presidio del Norte,

Mexico, to Del Rio, Tex..

853

El Oro to Mexican bank.......

853

Kansas City, Mo.,

timeextended forbridgingMissouri Riverat 178

between Sibley and..

198

terms of court at..

1117

Kansas City, Saint Joseph and Excelsior

Springs Railway Company,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

at Kansas City, Mo., by.......

178

Kansas Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of................ 280, 1069

Kansas Judicial District,

counties composing first division.

1112

second division...

1112

third division..

1112

terms of court..

1112

Kansas National Forest, Kans.,.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

exchange of public lands to private owners

of lands in..

960

deeded lands added to....

961

Kansas River,

time extended for bridging, Kansas City,

Kans ....

191

Kaolin,

duty on.

18

Kauai, Hawaii,

preliminary examination of harbors of, to

be made...

670

Kauri Gum,

on free list, crude....................

72

12

cxxxii

INDEX.

Kearney, Nebr., appropriation for public building..

Page. 705

Keene, N. H.,

appropriation for public building..

1374

limit of cost increased, public building.... 678

Keene's Cement,

duty on..

18

Keller, Thomas W.,

deficiency appropriation for services................ 802

Kelp,

on free list..

76

Kenefick, William, maybridge Red River, Bryan County, Okla 189
Kennebec River, Me.,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage regu-

lations in, Bath .

712, 1389

for improvement of..

729

preliminary examination of, to be made at

Swan Island, Me..

933

Kennebunk River, Me.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 671 Kenosha, Wis.,

appropriation forimprovement ofharbor. 656,947

Kentledge, Iron,

duty on..

21

Kentucky,

assigned to sixth judicial circuit......

1131

Kentucky Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing...

1112

terms of court.

1112

return of process in civil actions.

1113

acts of Henry L. Woods as commissioner de

facto, legalized ..

845

Kentucky River, Ky.,

appropriation for improvement of; Lock

and Dam No. 13 .

652, 945, 1406

for improvement of Lock and Dam No.

14; contracts ....

652, 945, 1406

for bridge and restoring county road.... 652

Kentucky River, Ky., North Fork of,

preliminary examination to be made of... 955

Kentucky Western Judicial District,

counties composing...

1113

terms of court .

1113

return of process in civil actions ....

1113

Kenyon Street NW., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 784

Keokuk, Iowa,

terms of court at.

1111

Kern National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Kerosene Oil,

on free list..

78

Kerr, Dennis M.,

deficiency appropriation for services ... 803, 1314 Kettle Falls, Minn.,
dam authorized across Lake Namakan, at.. 931

Kewaunee, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

conditions ..

656, 947

Keweenaw Point, Mich.,

appropriationforimprovement ofwaterway

across .

656

Keweenaw Waterway, Mich., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 672

Key West, Fla., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. for rebuilding, etc. , weather station..........
for naval station, public works .. for marine hospital repairs, etc..

9411237 1275 1374

deficiency appropriation for purchase of

wharf, Fort Taylor ..

210

for public works, naval station ..

793

preliminary examination of harbor chan-

nels to be made.....

670

terms of court at.

1108

Keyport Harbor, N. J.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of...... 636, 936 Kiamichi River, Okla.,

appropriation for improvement of.

648

Kickapoo Indian Allotments, Okla.,

appropriation for prosecution of fraudulent

conveyances of; advances .... 748, 1425

Kickapoo Indian Reservation, Kans.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 275 , 1064

Kickapoo Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of..... 280, 1069 Kids,

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced ...

228

Kidskins,

duty on dressed and finished .

68

Kieserite,

on free list

76

Kilbourn, O. B.,

Kidmebfailcli,enWc.y

appropriation K.,

for

services ......

1316

deficiency appropriation for payment to

estate of.....

1311

Kindling Wood,

on free list.

76

Kingfisher, Okla.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized ...

683

Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Indian Reserva-

tions, Okla.,

allotment of 160 acres to children of tribal

members born since June 5, 1906.... 861

selection from pasture-reserve lands..... 861

proportionate share it area insufficient... 861

Kiowa Indian Reservation, Okla.,

time extended for payments due by home-

steaders on ceded lands of.......

266

Kiowa Indians, etc., Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of, from

tribal funds..

280, 1069

sale of unallotted, etc., lands on reserva-

tions of...

1069

allotments, etc., directed to James F.

Rowell.

280

canceled ...

887

Kirschwasser,

duty on..

40

Kiskiminetas Connecting Railroad Company,

may bridge Allegheny River, in Armstrong

County, Pa..

179

Kissimmee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 645

preliminary examination of, to be made...... 660

Kissinger, John S.,

deficiency appropriation for monthly payments to...
Kitchen Knives, duty on..
Kitchen Utensils,

1300 27

duty on iron or steel enameled, etc.,

hollow ware..

28

Kittitas County, Wash.,

bridge authorized across Columbia River

between Grant County and ....

600

Kitzmiller, H. W.,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices....

127

Klamath Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at...

282, 1071

Klamath Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

appropriation for constructing irrigation

system at Modoc Point on; repay-

ment..

1071

Klamath National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

23

INDEX.

cxxxiii

Klickitat County, Wash.,

Page.

time extended for final proofs of desert-

land entries in; affidavits.......

960

Klingaman, J. L., deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

Knife River, Minn.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

- 672

Knit Fabrics,

duty on woolen, not specially provided for. 53

Knit Goods,

duty on silk.

.60

Knitted Articles,

duty on woolen...

54

Knitting Machine Needles,

duty on.

28

Knitting Needles,

duty on....

28

Knives,

duty on, penknives, etc.

26

with handles....

27

without handles..

27

Knoxville, Tenn.,

loan of tents, etc., to Appalachian Exposi-

tion at..

883

terms of court at.

1124

Kobe, Japan,

appropriation for Seamen's Instituté... 347, 1036

Koch, Captain Theodore H.,

lineal rank in Coast Artillery Corps, cor-

rected ..

202

Kohl-Rabi Seed,

duty on..

37

Kokomo, Ind., appropriation for public building....... 1374
Kootenai National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249 Kootenai River,

bridge authorized across, Bonners Ferry,

Idaho.....

192, 855

Kootenai Valley Railway Company,

may bridge Kootenai River, at Bonners

Ferry..

855

Korea (see also Chosen),

appropriation for interpreters at con-

sulates ...

346

for marshals, consular courts...

346

for expenses of American prisoners ..

346

for wages of prison keeper.

346

Kosciuszko, General Thaddeus,

deficiency appropriation for completing

and unveiling statue of...

209

Kryolith,

on free list.

75

Kuskokwim River, Alaska,'

preliminary examination to be made of en-

trance to....

956

Kyanite,

on free list....

76

L.

La Crosse, Wis.,

terms of court at.

1130

La Junta, Colo. ,,

appropriation for public building .

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

684

La Pointe Indian Agency, Wis.,

deficiency appropriation for relief of In-

dians..

124

La Sal National Forest, Utah and Colo.

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

La Salle, Ill.,

appropriation for public building......... 1375

La Trappe River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of...

937

 88888

228*8

La Veta, Colo.,

Page.

granted lands for public park......................

461

Labels,

duty on cotton, etc., forgarments, etc.

48

lithographically printed...

62

Labor Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, chief sta-

tistician, clerks, etc............. 525, 1227

for per diem experts. for reports and materials for..

525, 1227 525, 1227

for share, International Labour Associa-

tion... . for books, etc..

526, 1227 526, 1227

for medical examination of injured em-

ployees.

526, 1228

Labor, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, chief statistician, clerks,

etc..

-525, 1227

Labor, Convict,

manufactures of, prohibited importation.. 87

Labor Liens, Miner's,

provisions for, in Álaska.........

848

Labor Organizations,

exempt from corporation tax.:..

113

Labor-Saving Devices, Postal Service, appropriation for testing... for purchase, repair, etc., of.

356, 1328 361, 1333

Labor-Saving Machines, Treasury Department,

appropriation for purchase.

493, 1196

Laborers, Alien Contract,

excluded admission.

264

classes excepted ....

264

Labour Legislation, International Association for,
appropriation for contribution..... 526, 1227

Lac,

on free list, dye, crude, etc.

76

spirits....

76

Lace- Making Machines,

duty on.

32

Lace-Making Machines, Lever or Gothrough,

imported prior to January 1, 1911, ad-

mitted free..

32

Lace Window Curtains,

duty on, cotton, etc., made on Nottingham

machines.....

50

Laces,

duty on; artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair..

60

beads or spangles.

64

cotton, flax, etc..

50

cotton, silk, etc. , made on Lever or Go-

through machine..

50

leather shoe .

68

silk.

60

straw, etc., for hats.

64

tinsel wire, etc.

30

woolen....

54

TOT

Lacings, Boot, Shoe, and Corset,

duty on, cotton, etc ..

48

Laconia, N. H.,

appropriation for public building.

1374

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized...

690

Lactarene,

on free list....

76

Lactic Acid,

duty on.

12

Ladders, Railway,

cars to be equipped with secure..

298

hand holds or grab irons on.

298

Ladycliffe Academy, West Point, N. Y.,

purchase authorized of, formerly Crans-

ton's Hotel, to add to Military

Academy grounds...........

323

22 SI

cxxxiv

INDEX .

Lafayette, La., appropriation for public building.

Page. 1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

685

Lagrange, Ga.,

appropriation for public building.... 705, 1374 limit of cost increased, public building... 677

Lahn (see also Tinsel Wire),

duty on...

30

Lake Champlain, acceptance of memorial of discovery of,

upon Crown Point light station ;

maintenance, etc...

924

preliminary examination of Narrows of, to

be made..

674

Lake Champlain, Missisquoi Bay,

bridge authorized across, Alburg to Swan-

ton, Vt......

1358

Lake Charles, La.,

appropriation for public building..

703

terms of court at.

1114

Lake City, Minn., ·

appropriation for public building.

1374

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

686

Lake County, Ind., bridges authorized across Grand Calumet

River, in..

468, 587

dumping refuse in Lake Michiganopposite,

unlawful; penalty...

593

may bridge Grand Calumet River, Ham-

mond, Ind...

293

Lake Crescent, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Lake Denmark Naval Magazine, N. J.,

appropriation for public works .

1277

Lake des Allemands, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in .......... 534

Lake Erie (see also Great Lakes), appropriation for light vessel, between

Point Abino and Sturgeon Point.... 1431

light vessel authorized between Abino

Point and Sturgeon Point in....

536

report, etc., to be made on constructing

canal from Ohio River near Pitts-

burg to, at local expense.

956

to southerly end of Lake Michigan, by

Maumee Riverand Fort Wayne, etc. 956

Lake Erie, Perry's Victory on,

appropriation for memorial, and aid to centennial celebration in 1913 of ...... 1081

Lake Huron (see Great Lakes).

Lake Jessup,

bridge authorized across in Orange County,

Fla..

330

Lake Michigan (see also Great Lakes),

appropriation for naval training station

on...

609, 1269

consent of Congress to settlement of juris-

diction of State laws on, by Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. 882

dumping refuse in, near Chicago unlawful;

exception..

593

penalty for...

593

light vessel authorized for North Manitou

Island...

536

report, etc., to be made on proposed canal

from Lake Erie, by Maumee River

and Fort Wayne, etc...

956

telephone service between Two Rivers life-

saving station and Twin River Point

lighthouse, directed ..

194

wharves, piers, etc., allowed in, Lake

County, Ind ..

880

Lake Namakan, Minn.,

dam authorized across, Kettle Falls, Minn. 031

Lake ofthe Woods, Minn., appropriation for lighting..
for improvement of Zippel Bay..... post lantern lights authorized in ..
preliminary examination of, to be made... Lake Okechobee, Fla.,
preliminary examination of, to be made... Lake Ontario (see Great Lakes) . Lake Pontchartrain, La.,

Page. 754 947 534 955
670

appropriation for improvement of......... 647

Lake Salvador, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in..

534

Lake Superior (see also Great Lakes),

appropriation for lighting channels in Saint

Louis and Superior Bays ...

754

light and fog signal station authorized at

Michigan and Gull Islands....

536

Lake Traverse, Minn. and S. Dak. ,

post lantern lights authorized in..

534

Lake Washington, Miss., appropriation for improvement of....... 647, 942

Lake Washington-Puget Sound Waterway,

appropriation for improvement of..... 666, 1406 Lake Union, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of waterway

to Puget Sound from....

666

Lake Winnebago, etc., Wis.,

appropriation for lighting...

754

Lake Winnepesaukee,

rural delivery by carrier with motor boat on. 1339

Lake Winnibigoshish, Minn.,

appropriation for canal between Leech

Lake and .....

949

Lakes,

duty on, not specially provided for.................... 15

Lamb,

duty on fresh.....

38

Lambert, Lucian S.,

appointed on Board of Managers, Volunteer

Soldiers' Home.....

1459

Lambs,

census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

and all hides produced....

228

Lambskins,

duty on, dressed and finished .

68

Lame (see also Tinsel Wire),

duty on..

30

Lampblack,

duty on..

15

Lamps,

duty on china, etc., decorated, etc......

18

china, etc., not decorated, etc.....

18

Lamps, Miners' Safety,

on free list..

77

Lancaster, Ky.,

appropriation for public building......

1374

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized ...

689

Lancaster, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.

1375

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized....

691

Lancewood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.....

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only..

81

Land Grant Railroads,

compensation for transportation of mail car-

ried by, reduced.

362

Land Grants to Railroads;

deposits required from roads for cost of

selecting, etc., unsurveyed lands

under...

834

amount to be specified by Secretary of

Interior....

834

disbursement, etc. , of..

834

repayment of excess ..

834

INDEX .

CXXXV

Land Grants to Railroads-Continued.

` Page.

forfeiture of, on failure to make deposits... 834

proceedings to restore lands to public

domain.....

834

public surveys over, not affected..

834

surveyed lands subject to taxation........ 834

regulations, etc., to be prescribed ...

835

Land Offices (see also Public Lands),

appropriation for contingent expenses.. 739, 1414

available for clerks detailed for exam-

inations, assistance, etc.....

1414

Land Turretsfor Coast Defense, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc., insular possessions....

599

Lander, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building...... 705, 1375

terms of court at....

1130

Lands, etc., appropriation for custody of, etc....... 715, 1392
Lands in Severalty to Indians,

appropriation for completing allotments,

etc......

269, 1059

forsurvey and subdivision of reservations,

etc., for allotting...

269, 1059

repayment; use of balances con-

tinued...

269, 1059

for costs in suits on allotments..

272

for removing alienation restrictions from

Five Civilized Tribes.......

281

deficiency appropriation for surveying and

allotting..

222

allotments to be made by special agentsand

reservation agents, etc..

858

by reservation agents alone.....

858

certificates to be prescribed..

858

allotments to Indians on reservations...

859

area increased ...............

860

within irrigation projects, diminished. 860

remainder on nonirrigable lands.... 860

compliance with treaty obligations;

basis of irrigable and nonirrigable

lands......

860

not in reservations...

860

areaofirrigable and nonirrigable lands. 860

on unsurveyed lands..

860

patents, fees, etc....

860

allotment to children on Yakima Indian

Reservation, Wash..

349

allowed in Quinaielt Reservation, Wash.,

to Hoh, etc., tribes ....

1345

appeals in suits affecting allotted lands,

Oklahoma eastern district, allowed

to Supreme Court....

837

certificates of competency allowed in dis-

cretion of Secretary of Interior...... 856

alienation restrictions removed by..

856

disposal of allotments on irrigable lands,

Blackfeet Reservation, Mont.....

297

exchange of allotments on reservoir and

power sites ...

297

condemnation proceedings .

297

general provisions not applicable to Five

· Civilized Tribes or Osage Indians in

Oklahoma..

862

grants to railway companies for reservoirs,

etc., on allotments held by Indians;

payment to allottees....

349

Indian allottees dying without heirs to be

reported to Congress for cancellation

of patent....

858

inducing Indians to convey, etc., trust

allotments, unlawful.

857

punishment for....

857

legal leases not affected...

857

leases of trust allotments for five years,

permitted .....

856

Lands in Severalty to Indians-Continued. Page. leases of trust allotments for five years;

payment of proceeds .....

857

sales of allotments; payment, etc....... 856

disposition of proceeds..

856

sales of timber on unallotted lands in reser-

vations, permitted ..

857

disposition of proceeds..

857

Minnesota and Wisconsin excepted ... 857

on trust allotments, permitted..

857

disposition of proceeds...

857

trust allotments in irrigation projects to be

canceled ....

859

reimbursement for lands.. ........... 859

lieu allotments to be made..

859

in national forests to Indians living there. 862

punishment for timber depredations on.. 857

not extinguishing fires on..

857

to Indians in Colville Reservation, Wash. 862

trust patents to Indians in Camp Mohave

abandoned reservation, confirmed.. 858

to Louiza Phelix and Mary Lorena Rolfe,

canceled

833

to two Pahute Indians dying without

heirs, canceled ·.

858

village lots in reservations in Washing-

tón.

858

stations required at town sites in railroad

rights ofway through allotments .... 859

unexpired trust allotments of Indians

dyingintestate......

855

patentsin feeto competentheirs..

855

sales, if incompetent..

856

partition, if advantageous to heirs.

856

wills of adult Indians disposing of trust

allotments, allowed....

856

approval by Commissioner and Secretary

required..

856

Landsittel, L. H.,

deficiency appropriation forservices..... 803

Langfilt, Lieutenant- Colonel William C.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

1295

L'Anguille River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of........................... 945

Lanier Place NW., D. C.,

condemningland for extending...

978

appropriation for expenses, etc..

979

Lansing, Mich.,

appropriationfor public building.....

1375

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized..

679

Laporte, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.......... 1375

Lappels, Cotton,

duty on..

47

Laramie County, Wyo.,

granted right of way on Fort D. A. Russell

reservation..

1012

Larchmont, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made....

674

Lard,

1

duty on....

38

Laredo, Tex.,

bridge authorized across Rio Grande, be-

tween Nuevo Laredo, Mex., and............... 188

terms of court at..

1127

Las Cruces, N. Mex., appropriation for public building...... 1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

691

Las Vegas, N. Mex., appropriation for public building....... 1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

691

cxxxvi

INDEX.

Lassen National Forest, Cal.,

Page.

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

Last Blocks,

duty on, rough hewn, etc...

33

Latch Needles,

duty on..

28

Laths,

duty on wood.....

33

Laudanum,

duty on..

15

Laundries, Army, `

outside work permitted by; use of pro-

ceeds..

253, 1048

Laurel, Miss.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized

682

Laurel Root,

duty on, unmanufactured, cut into blocks. 33

Laurens, S. C.,

appropriation for public building...

1375

limit ofcost increased, public building.... 678

Lava,

duty on, tips for burners..........

19

on free list, unmanufactured ..

76

Lavender,

on free list, oil..............

77

Law Books,

appropriation for circuitcourts of appeals.. 1233

for judicial officers....

1234, 1419

Law Booksfor Judicial Officers,

appropriation for; prices for Federal Re-

porter, and digests ....

1419

Law Library,

appropriation for librarian, etc......... 480, 1182 Lawler, K. F.,
deficiency appropriation forservices...... 1315

Lawrence, Kans.,

appropriation for Haskell Institute Indian

school...

:.. 275, 1064

Lawrenceburg, Ky.,

construction of public building at, au-

thorized .

681

Laws, etc., Relating to the District of Colum

bia, Index of,

appropriation forpreparation, etc....

966

Laws ofCongress,

appropriation for law clerk and assistant,

editing, etc..

483, 1186

Laws ofthe United States,

made applicable to Hawaii..

443

general Territorial provisions excepted .. 443

Lawton and Fort Sill Electric Railway Com-

pany, granted right of way across lands of Co-
manche Indian School, Okla... -588 Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla.......... 268

Lawton, Okla.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

687

sale of tract of land authorized to..................... 355

terms of court at..

1122

Lazear, Mabel H. (widow),

appropriation for monthly payments to . 250, 1044 Le Mars, Iowa,

construction of public building at, author-

ized.....

681

Lead,

admission of, ores in bonded smelting warehouses without paying duty .... 89

duty on acetate of, white, brown, gray, or

yellow

16

bars ...

30

base bullion..

30

bullion...

30

dross .

30

glaziers'.

30

888888

Lead-Continued .
duty on, litharge... nitrate of.....

Page. 16 16

not specially provided for..

30

ore; determination...

30

pigs..

30

pipe..

30

red .

15

refuse..

30

 .

30

sheets..

30

shot..

30

white..

15

wire.

30

Lead Arsenate (see Insecticide Act).

Lead, S. Dak. ,
appropriation for public building.. limit ofcost increased, public building. Leadville National Forest, Colo.,

1375 679

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

LeafRiver, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of; main-

tenance....

647

Leaf Tobacco, Domestic, unstemmed natural, in the hand, unmanu-

factured, subject to no internal rev-

enue tax...

110

buying and selling without tax, per-

mitted....

110

League Island Navy- Yard, Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation for dredging..

615

for marine officers' quarters, etc..

618

Leakage,

no allowance for, on imported wines, etc.. 40

Leases, Indian Allotments,

permitted for five years; proceeds.........

856

Leather,

duty on, bags.....

68

band, bend, or belting..

68

baskets..

68

belts...

68

bookbinders' calfskins..

68

boots...

68

made of hides and skins entitled to

free entry.

68

boxes...

68

buff..

68

calfskins, tanned or tanned and dressed.. 68

card cases..

68

cases .

chamois..

68

cutintoshoeuppers, vamps, etc.

68

dressed upper and all other.

enameled..

68

gauffre... glove tranks..

gloves.....

69

goatskins, dressed and finished .

68

grain... harness .
japanned . jewel boxes . kangaroo skins, dressed and finished .

68 68, 69
68 68 68

kidskins, dressed and finished......

68

· lambskins, dressed and finished ..

68

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

68

patent...

68

piano forte and piano action..

68

pocketbooks..

68

portfolios.

68

rough.... saddles and saddlery....

68, 69

satchels...

68

sheepskins, dressed and finished ..

68

shoe laces...

68

INDEX .

cxxxvii

*88888

Leather-Continued.

Page.

duty on, shoes ....

68

made of hides and skins entitled to

free entry..

68

skins for morocco, tanned but unfinished.

sole.....

68

split..

varnished.

68

on free list, grease and oils for stuffing or

dressing..

76

Leavenworth, Kans., appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home...

....... 734,-1410

for penitentiary, construction...

747, 1423

for penitentiary, maintenance... 751, 1427

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers'Home .

211, 220, 1301

for penitentiary, maintenance...

215

terms of court at..

1112

6433

Leaves,

duty on, artificial, millinery ornaments.... 66

coca..

14

drugs....

13

on free list, crude, drugs, not specially pro-

vided for...

75

Leaves of Absence,

internal revenue storekeepers, etc., allowed

cumulative .

592

railway mail clerks and repair shops em-

ployees allowed thirty days'.

1336

regular annual employees of District of

Columbia allowed thirty days'...... 967

police, firemen, and school officials ex-

cepted ....

967

Leaves of Absence, Government Printing Office,

appropriation for...

767, 1445

allowance to employees on annual salary
deficiency appropriation for... part of appropriation for holidays, 1911,
made available for.....
Lebanon, Tenn., construction of public building authorized at....

767 807 1448·
683

Leech Lake, Minn.,

appropriation for canal between Lake

Winnibigoshish and..................

949

Leeches,

on free list....

76

Lecturers, Alien Professional, contract labor exclusion not applicable to .. 264
Lee, Henry W., payment to, from Winnebago tribal funds. 288

Legare, Honorable George S., deficiency appropriation for contested-

seelnetcattioinveesx.p.e..n.ses, House of Repre- 806

Legations,

appropriation for clerks at..

338, 1029

for interpreters to.....

338, 1029

for repairs to premises...

342, 1032

deficiency appropriation for clerks at..

774

purchase of buildings for, authorized ...... 917

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Expenses,

appropriation for legislative expenses.. 468, 1170

for Senate...

468, 1170

for Capitol Police .

473, 1175

for Congressional Directory. ..... 473, 1175

for House of Representatives..

473, 1175

"during the session" to mean 117 days. 478

"duringthe session "tomean210 days. 1180

for Library of Congress..

478, 1181

for Botanic Garden..

482, 1184

for executive expenses................................... 482, 1184

for President.....

........ 482, 1184

for Vice-President..

482, 1184

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Ex- Page. penses-Continued .

appropriation for Executive Office 482, 1184

for Civil Service Commission....

483, 1185

for Department of State....

483, 1186

advancement of commercial, etc., in-

terests...

484, 1186

for Treasury Department...

485, 1187

collecting internal revenue..

494, 1196

corporation tax returns..

494, 1197

Independent Treasury.

494, 1197

mints and assay offices..

497, 1199

government in the Territories. 500, 1202

for War Department...

501, 1203

public buildings and grounds...... 504, 1207

State, War, and Navy Department

Building...

505, 1207

for Navy Department..

506, 1208

for Interior Department..

511, 1213

surveyors-general...

517, 1219

for Post- Office Department..

518, 1221

use of postal service appropriations re-

stricted ...

522

for Department of Justice..
for Department of Commerce Labor.....
for judicial expenses.. for United States Courts....

522, 1224
and 524, 1226 529, 1232 529, 1232

for Court of Customs Appeals........, 530, 1234

for Commerce Court..

1234

for Court of Claims...

530, 1234

pay of switchboard operators, assistant

messengers, etc., rated ....

530, 1235

permanently incapacitated persons not to

be paid.....

531, 1235 .

supplies to be contracted for by Secretary

of the Treasury.....

531

general supply committee created; des-

ignation, duties, etc...

531

contracts for telephone, electric light,

and power service..

531

Leipsic River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tions ....

638

preliminary examination of, to be made. 953

Lemhi Agency, Idaho,

appropriations for fulfilling treaty with

Indians formerly of...

275

Lemhi National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249 Lemon,

on free list, juice............

76

oil...

77

peel, not preserved , etc.......

78

Lemon Bay, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made..: 670 Lemon Creek, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Lemon Grass,

on free list, oil.

77

Lemon Peel,

duty on..

38

on free list, not preserved, etc..

78

Lemonade,

duty on..

41

Lemons,

duty on..

38

Lenses,

duty on, glass or pebble ....

20

photographic and projection..

21

Lepers, etc., Island ofGuam, appropriation for care of..

617, 1267

Leprosy Hospital, Hawaii, appropriation for maintenance..

717, 1394

deficiennacnyc. e appropriation for mainte- 808

cxxxviii

INDEX .

Letter Balances, etc. , Postal Service, appropriation for..

Page. | Libraries, Public, 366, 1338 on free list, books, etc. , for; limit..

Pago. 74

Letter Carriers, Postal Service,

philosophical apparatus, etc., for .................... 78

appropriation for city delivery. for rural service....

361, 1333 366, 1339

for paying claims for overtime under

eight-hour law...

865

limit to attorneys' fees........

865

penalty for violations....

866

Libraries, State,

on free list, of persons from foreign coun-

tries .

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for

78

Library, D. C. , Free Public,

appropriation for expenses ..

380, 972

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

Library of Congress,

of New York City ..

1314 appropriation for Librarian, assistant,

allowed by consolidation of two offices in

etc..

478, 1181

any city, etc., having $10,000 rev-

enue...

911

compensatory time off, allowed for Sunday 

labor by city..

1339

for chiefs of divisions, etc..
for reading rooms, etc. for law library .. for copyright office.

478, 1181 479, 1181 480, 1182 480, 1183

48 32

Letter Copying Books, duty on..

for distributing card indexes, etc .. 480, 1183

62

for temporary services; carriers.. 481, 1183

Letters of Exchange, International Conference

for Sunday opening.....

481, 1183

to Promote Uniform Legislation Concerning, appropriation for participation in.............................. 1364

for purchasing books, periodicals, etc. 481, 1183

for contingent expenses .

481, 1183

for index to Statutes at Large .

481

Letters, Postal Service, uncalled for, to be returned to writer, with-

for superintendent of building, clerks,

etc.

481, 1183

out advertising, at time requested,

etc.....

630

if not received to be treated as dead

letters..

630

for engineers, etc.
for Sunday opening.. for fuel, lights, etc. for furniture, shelves, etc.

481, 1184 482, 1184 482, 1184 482, 1184

Lever, Honorable A. F.,

for trees, etc., for grounds of....

726, 1403

deficiency appropriation or contested elec-

for printing and binding for..

769, 1447

tion expenses, House of Represent-

atives

806

Lever Lace Machines,

on free list, prior to January 1 , 1911....... 32

Lever or Gothrough Machine,

duty on laces, etc., made on....

50

for Catalogue of Title Entries, Copyright

Office .

769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for register of

copyrights..

129

for increase

223, 811

for contingent expenses........

1324, 1327

Levisa Fork, Big Sandy River, W. Va. and

on free list, books, etc., for..

73

Ky. ,

thanks to Italy for gift of engravings to.. 875

appropriation for improvement of Lock

and Dam No. 1...

652, 730

forimprovement of Lock and Dam No. 2. 652

Lewes, Del. ,

Library of Congress, Superintendent of Building and Grounds,
appropriationfor, clerks, employees, etc. 481, 1183 Library, Takoma Park, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance of pier,

deficiency appropriation for maintenance,

Delaware Bay .

936

etc..

1296

construction of public building authorized

acceptance of gift for, etc.

209

at..

681 Licenses,

Lewis and Clark Exposition, Oreg.,

custom-house brokers', issue, revocation,

deficiency appropriation for Alaska exhibit 810

etc ....

464

Lewis and Clark National Forest, Mont.,

Licenses, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249 annual wheel tax on motor vehicles....... 379

Lewis River, Wash.,

Lichens,

appropriation for improvement of....... 665, 951 duty on, drugs....

13

Lewisburg, W. Va., terms of court at.................

on free list, crude, drugs not specially pro-

1129

vided for....

75

Lewiston, Idaho,

Licorice,

appropriation for public building ....

1375 duty on extracts of...............

14

·Lexington, N. C.,

on free list, root, unground..

76

appropriation for public building........... 705, 1375 | Liens, Maritime,

Lerington, Va., appropriation for public building ....

allowed persons furnishing repairs, ma-

1375

terials, etc., to foreign or domestic

Liability Act, Employers', jurisdiction of circuit court, etc., in actions

vessels...

604

presumption of authority for orders.... 605

under...

291

waiving permitted ; other remedies not

Liberia,

affected .

605

appropriation for minister resident and

State laws superseded .

605

consul -general....

337, 1028 Liens, Miner's Labor,

for secretary of legation..

337, 1028 provisions for, in Álaska ..

848

Liberty Bridge Company,

Liens ofWarehousemen, D. C.,

time extended for constructing bridge

extent and effect of..

305

across Monongahela River, Pitts-

Life-Saving Service, Treasury Department,

burg, Pa. , by...

269,908 appropriation for General Superintendent,

Librarian of Congress,

clerks, etc....

491, 1193

appropriation for, chief assistant, etc... 478, 1181 Libraries,
on free list, books, etc. , for; limit......... 74

for superintendents.. for keepers .
for crews, expenses, etc....

710, 1387 711, 1388 711, 1388

INDEX .

cxxxix

Life-Saving Service, Treasury Department- Page. Continued.

appropriation for establishing new sta-

tions.....

711, 1388

deficiency appropriation for... 219, 809, 813, 1321

appliances required on motor boats....

463

Life-Saving Stations, telephone service directed between Twin

River Point light-house, Wis., and

Two Rivers ...

194

Life-Saving Testimonials,

appropriation for rescuing shipwrecked

American seamen...

340, 1031

Lifeboats and Life-Saving Apparatus,

on free list, for life-saving societies......

76

Light-House Board,

appropriation for chief clerk, clerks, etc.... 526

authority, etc., transferred to Commissioner

of light-houses .

538

employees transferred to Light-House

Bureau..

537

Light-House Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor (see also Lighthouses, Bu-

reau of),

established ..

537

appointment of commissioner, and deputy,

salaries....

537

chief clerk; duties.....

537

inspectors, clerks, etc.

537

chiefconstructing engineer, superintend-

ent of naval construction ; salaries... 537

commissioner to make annual report.... 537

to adjust damages from collisions with

light-house vessels ..

537

transfer of employees from Light- House

Board and Light-House Establish-

ment to.....

537

Army and Navy officers excepted

537

commissioner to perform duties of Light-

House Board ....

538

to have control, etc., of Light-House

Service ...

538

to have charge of archives, etc., of Light-

House Establishment.

538

to make contracts for materials; proposals 538

minor purchases in open market...

538

to purchase sites for light-houses....

538

to employ temporary draftsmen on plans

for new vessels..

538

to prescribe administrative regulations.. 538

to rearrange districts; inspectors...

538

inspectors' salaries; extra for third district. 538

assignment of Army and Navy officers... 538

Army engineers for Mississippi River

districts...

539

details from Army Engineer Corps to super-

vise construction, etc ..

539

unexpended balances transferred to....... 539

laws repealed ..

539

in effect July1..

539

deficiency appropriation for salaries...... 800

Light-House Districts,

to be rearranged by commissioner of light-

houses..

538

Light-House Establishment,

appropriation for supplies, etc........

753

for repairs, etc.....

754

for keepers' salaries, etc..

754

for light vessels .

754

for buoyage..

754

for fog signals.

754

for lighting of rivers, etc...

754

leasing of sites..

754

for maintenance of tenders ..

755

for repairs to tenders.....

755

Light-House Establishment- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for clerks in offices of inspec-

tors, etc.

755

for oil houses .

755

for lights in channels of Great Lakes.

755

Neebish Channel, Saint Marys River.. 755

for Pointe au Pelee, vessel ..

755

repeal of indefinite provision for light

vessels...

755

detailed estimates for, all objects re-

quired ..

755

deficiency appropriation for post lights,

Delaware River..

126

for keepers' salaries ..

224

for light vessels ..

224

for repairs, etc ........

800

for supplies..

814

custody of archives, etc., transferred to

commissioner of lighthouses...

538

employees transferred to Light-House

Bureau ..

537

Light-House Inspectors,

appropriation for salaries, etc........

1432

for employees in offices of, etc....

754

control, etc., transferred to commissioner

oflighthouses .....

538

Light-House Tenders,

appropriation for maintenance of..

755

for repairs to

755

Light-Houses, Beacons, Fog Signals, etc. (see

also Aids to Navigation).

appropriation for Monhegan Island, Me.,

light station.....

1430

for Stonington River, Conn., light sta-

tion...

1430

for Bogue Sound, N. C., range lights.... 1430

for Staten Island, N. Y., depot, power

plant..

1430

for Brandywine Shoal, Del., light sta-

tion ....

1430

for mouth of Rondout Creek, Hudson

River, N. Y., light station..

1430

for Lincoln Rock, Alaska, light station .. 1430

for Buffalo, N. Y., breakwater, north end

light station....

1431

for Superior Entry, Wis., lighting break-

waters and piers..

1431

for Eagle Point, Delaware River, N. J.,

range lights....

1431

for San Pedro, Cal., breakwater light

statión...

1431

for vessel, Lake Erie, between Point

Abino and Sturgeon Point....

1431

for Edgemoor, Del ., depot.

1431

for Miah Maul Shoal station, Delaware

Bay..

1431

for Fort McHenry Channel, Md ., range

lights..

1431

for Cape Fear River, N. C., range lights

below Wilmington ..

1431

for Norfolk, Va. , channel lights..

1431

for Sand Island, Ala., light station .

1431

for Livingstone Channel, Detroit River,

lights and buoys ..

1431

for Staten Island depot, wharves, etc .. 1431

for Hunts Point, N. Y., station .

1431

for Battery Point, Wash. , station .......... 1431

for aids to navigation, Alaska..

1431

deficiency appropriation forThimbleShoal,

Va ...

800

authorized at San Pedro breakwater, Cal.. 929

Staten Island depot, N. Y., power

house .

1079

Brandywine Shoal station, Delaware

Bay....

1080

cxl

INDEX .

Light-Houses, Beacons, Fog Signals, etc.-Con. Page. | Lighting, D. C.-Continued.

Page.

authorized at Buffalo, N. Y., breakwater,

appropriation for expenses under new rates 982

station on north end...

1080 deficiency appropriation for..

784

Superior Entry, Wis., lights on piers,

maximum rates for contracts for, in 1912... 1009

etc ...

1080

mantle gas lamps...

1009

depot, Boston harbor, Mass.

1080

rebuilding, etc., ordered, Lincoln Rock,

Alaska, light, etc. , station...

957

telephone directed between Twin River

street designation lamps.. incandescent electric lamps. Nernst lamps..
series-inclosed arc lamps..

1009 1009 1009 1009

Point lighthouse, Wis., and Two

Rivers life-saving station......

194

Light Vessels,
appropriation for expenses . for repairs . for officers and crews.

754, 1431 754 1432

for Lake Erie, between Point Abino and

Sturgeon Point....

1431

multiple-inclosed arc lamps.
magnetite, etc., arc lamps.... flame arc lamps..
replacement ofpresent inclosed arc lamps. maintenance, fixtures, etc., by lighting
companies...... cost of posts, etc.; allowance for ex-
cess

1009 1009 1009 1010
1010
1010-

deficiency appropriation for..

224, 1324

equipment by District; deductions..

1010

authorized, mouth of Saint Johns River,

Fla...

536

North Manitou Island, Lake Michigan.. 536

adoption of other forms of electric, au-

thorized; payments .

1010

moving, etc., lamps; rates..

1010

Lake Erie, between Point Abino and

Sturgeon Point....

536

Galveston Bay, Tex., location changed... 536

relief vessel for general service authorized. 534

repeal of indefinite provisions for ex-

penses of..

755

contracts authorized for oil mantle lamps;

price...

1010

lamps to burn all night; no overhead wires for lamps in city or fire limits ... 1011

deductions for illumination notfurnished .. 1011

contracts not required for..

1011

restriction on changing stations of, re-

pealed ....

537

White Shoal, Lake Michigan, transferred

to Indiana Shoals ....

536

penalty for failure to maintain, etc. , lamps

by companies....

1011

discontinuance of lamps permitted, with-

out further payment...

1011

Light- Houses, appropriation for salaries of keepers .... 754, 1432 deficiency appropriation for supplies . 814, 1324
Lighthouses, Bureau of, Department of Commerce and Labor,
appropriation for Commissioner, deputy... 1228

Lighting ofRivers, etc.,

appropriation for pay of employees, ex-

penses, etc.

754

for expenses of..

754, 1431

deficiency appropriation for..

1324

additional post lantern lights authorized.. 534

for fighthouses, beacons, etc ..

1430

for general expenses...

1431

for lighthouse keepers, salaries .

1432

for light-vessels, officers and crew..

1432

for salaries, inspectors, etc., outside of

Washington....

1432

deficiency appropriation for .barge for

Lighting, Public Buildings,

appropriation for electric, gas, etc...... 715, 1391 Lignites, etc.,

appropriation for testing, etc................. 742,1419

tests for outside parties; charges, etc.. 1419

investigations of, transferred to Bureau of

Mines.....

370

2   te e ee i

Saint Joseph, Mich., depot...

1313 Lignum- Vitæ,

for supplies...

1324 duty on, sawed boards, etc............

33

for buoyage..

1324 on free list, logs, rough or hewn only.

81

forlight-vessels .

1324 Lillian, Ala.,

for lighting of rivers ..

1324 bridge_authorized across Perdido Bay,

memorial of discovery of Lake Champlain,

Cummings Point, Fla., to .....

415

authorized upon Crown Point light

Lily Bulbs,

station, N. Y.; acceptance, etc..... 924 duty on

37

purchase of additional land for Big Bay

Lily ofthe Valley,

Point light station , Mich....

923 duty on clumps ...

37

right of way to Chequamegon light station,

pips....

36

Wis., from keeper's dwelling may be

Lima, Ohio,

exchanged..

924 deficiency appropriation for public build-

tender "Wistaria " transferred to Public

ing, rent, etc..

207

Health and Marine-Hospital Service 912 Lime,

Lighthouses, Commissioner of,

duty on .

17

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .... 1228

borate of..

13

deficiency appropriation for salary..

800

chloride of..

12 1

appointment, salary, etc..

537

sulphate of, artificial .

5.

duties, etc.

537 on free list, citrate of.

76

to have control of lighthouse service...

538 Lime Nitrogen,

Lighting, D. C.,

on free list...

appropriation for expenses; price .....

391 Limes,

maximum price; lighting, repairs, etc. 391 duty on

38

street designation fixtures...

391 on free list, juice..

76

contracts for oil lights not to exceed

oil.

77

three years..

391 Limestone,

for electric arc lighting by underground

duty on, not specially provided for........ 21

wires ..

391 Lincoln County, Oreg.,

higher power lamps for Union Station

construction of dike authorized across

Plaza..

391

Olalla Slough.....

855

INDEX .

cxli

Lincoln Memorial Commission, created, names of members .

Page. 898

to determine location, etc., of memorial to Abraham Lincoln in Washington,

· D. C..

898

approval of Congress..

898

to employ artists, sculptors, architects, etc. 898

services of Commission on Fine Arts... 898

selection ofsite: approval of Congress ..

898

construction, etc.; supervision of Secretary

of War.

898

contracts authorized; amount .

898

appointments to vacancies.

898

appropriation for expenses, plans, etc.

898 ·

estimates to be submitted annually..

 898

inconsistent laws repealed .

898

Lincoln National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Lincoln, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building...

1375

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized...

679

terms of court at.

... 294, 1118

Lincoln Rock, Alaska,

rebuilding light and fog signal station at,

ordered; cost ..

957

appropriation for.

1430

Lincoln's Deathplace, Washington, D. C., appropriation"f2or repairs, etc.
"Line of Hemp,' duty on..

728, 1405 49

Linen (see also Flax),

duty on, shirt collars and cuffs ....

50

Linen Cloth,

2 11 29 2

on free list, machines for weaving, from

flax, prior toJanuary 1, 1911 ....

32

Linings,

duty on woolen coat, cotton, etc., warp.

54

not specially provided for....

54

Linoleum,

duty on, floor coverings

49

mats..

49

Linotype Machines,

duty on..

32

Linseed,

duty on.

37

oil, raw, boiled, or oxidized .

14

Liqueurs,

duty on.

40

Liquor Traffic,

appropriation for suppressing, among

Indians ...

271, 1059

for suppressing, among Alaska natives... 1420

deficiency appropriation for suppressing,

among Indians..

222,811, 1323

Liquors, Adulterated, etc.,

appropriation for expenses preventing sale,

etc., of.

432, 1255

Liquors, Spirituous,

duty on; determination of proof.

39

Literacy,

census inquiries as to..

4

Literary Associations,

on free list, publications issued by........ 73

Literary Societies,, ett.,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit.

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for..

78

Literature, International Catalogue ofScientific,

appropriation for expenses, preparation

: 2gr.

768, 1395

Litharge;

duty on..

16

Lithographic Plates,

quty on.

28

transfer paper with imprints from..........

28

Lithographic Prints, duty on.

Page. 62

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc.; limit .

74

Lithographic Stones,

on free list, not engraved ....

77

Litmus,

on free list.

77

Little Calumet River,

bridge authorized across, in Cook County,

Ill..

178

Little Colorado River, Ariz.,

appropriation for constructing bridge across,

Navajo Reservation ..

1062

Little Elk River, Md.,

preliminary examination to be made of... 953

Little Falls, Minn.,

appropriation for public building.

1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

690

Little Kanawha River, W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of......

653

Little Lake, La.,

post lantern lights authorized in.......

534

Little Neck Bay, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673

Little Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 643 Little Pigeon River, Tenn., ·
appropriation for improvement of........ 652

Little River, Del.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 953

Little Rock, Ark.,

appropriation for burial of patients dying

at Hot Springs Hospital in national

cemetery at..

724, 1400

bridge authorized across Arkansas River,

Argenta to...

930

loan oftents, etc., for Confederate Veterans'

reunion at.

1456

terms of court at.

1107

Little Sodus Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 635, 935

Littlepage, Thomas P.,

deficiency appropriation for ..

803

Littleton, Frank L., and Leonard J. Hackney,

may bridge Wabash River, Mount Carmel,

Ill..

300

Littleton, N. H.,

terms of court at .

1119

Live Oak, Fla.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

681

Live Stock,

census inquiries as to, on farms and ranges..4, 227

schedules of cattle, etc., slaughtered for food, and all hides produced................. 228

census of, to be taken in 1915 and every

ten years after...

10

Live Stock Products,

appropriation for dissemination of informa-

tion concerning.

419, 1239

Livingston, Mont.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

Livingstone Channel, Detroit River, Mich.,

appropriation forimprovement of.. 655, 729, 1405

aids to navigation authorized to mark..

931

appropriation for .....

1431

Lloyd, Francis B.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1316

Loadstones,

on free list.

77

Loan Associations, Mutual Building and,

exempt from corporation tax..

113



cxlii

INDEX .

Lockport, Ill.,

Page.

appropriation for waterway by Desplaines

and Illinois Rivers to Mississippi

River from ..

659

' board of engineers to cooperate with

State authorities; duties..

660

for expenses; reports required ..

660

Lockport, N. Y.,

terms of court at.

1120

Locks and Dams,

completion of dam at Lock No. 4, Coosa

River, Ala., by Ragland Water

Power Company ..

939

power franchise granted for fifty years;

terms, etc..

939

time extended for, in Tennessee River,

Chattanooga, Tenn..

181

Locomotive Engine Boilers, Safe,

appropriation for expenses, compelling -

railroads to use...

1397

common carriers affected by Act..

913

meaning of " railroad" and " employees ". 913

operation of other than, unlawful..

913

chief and assistant chief inspectors to be

appointed ....

914

selection; salaries; offices, etc.

914

inspection districts created.

914

appointment of inspectors for..

914

in classified service; salaries, examina-

tions, etc.

914

disqualifications; interest in inven-

tions, intemperance..

914

rules for inspection by carriers; filing; ap-

proval..

914

by Interstate Commerce Commission on

failure of carrier to file..

915

changes, filing and approval:.....

915

office rules, etc.;approval ofall rules....

915

inspection of boilers by inspectors.....

915

by carriers; sworn reports..

915

reports of defects; use of disabled, for-

bidden ..

915

notice of defective boilers, etc. , use for-

bidden...

915

appeal to chief inspector; reexamina-

tions; effect...

915

appeals to Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion; final action....

916

inspector's requirements effective pend-

ing appeals....

916

annual report of chief inspector...

916

investigations of accidents from failure,

etc., of boilers.....

916

disabled parts to be preserved for in-

spection....

916

report of cause, etc., to Interstate Com-

merce Commission ; publication

916

not admitted as evidence in damage

suits....

916

penalty for violations by carriers..

916

prosecutions; information from chief in-

spector...

916

limit of annual appropriations ..

916

Lodges, Beneficial, exempt from corporation tax.................................... 113

Logan, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.

1375

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized..

691

Logwood, duty on, extracts and decoctions of....... 13
Logs,

on free list, wood, not specially provided

for..

81

Lolo National Forest, Mont,, · appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

London, England,

Page.

appropriation for dispatch agent.................... 340, 1030

London, Ky.,

appropriation for public building.

703

terms of court at.

1112

London Purple, duty on.
Lone Star Canal Company,
may dam mouth ofTurtle Bay, Tex.... close passes from Trinity River, etc., to.

16 .
828 828

cut dítch from Trinity River to Smiths

Bayou..

828

Long and Short Hauls in Interstate Commerce,

aggregate charges for transportation over shorter not to exceed that for longer distances....
nor to equal... allowances in special cases.. temporary continuance of presentrates.. competition with water routes; restric-
tion on increasing reduced rates.... Long Beach, Cal.,
appropriation for public building.

547 547 548 548
548
1375

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized .

688

Long Beach Harbor, Cal., preliminary examination of, to be made...
Long Branch, N. J., appropriation for public building.

669 1375

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Longview, Tex.,

appropriation for public building

1375

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ingat, authorized .

688

Looking Glass Plates,

duty on..

20

Loom Harness, etc.,

duty on cotton, etc.

48

Loops, Iron,

duty on..

22

Lorain, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor...

653, 946

for public building..

1375

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

687

range lights authorized for harbor.

-536

Lord, Herbert M.,

deficiency appropriation for extraservices. 127 Lord, John B.,
commission to assess damages to property

of, change D. C. o f grade, Union Station, 1344

Los Angeles, Cal.,

appropriation forimprovement ofharbor. 949, 662

for dredging plant... for public building; rent.

949, 662 705

deficiency appropriation for post-office and

court-house, mechanical equipment

for....

207

preliminary examination of outer harbor, to

be made..

669

terms of court at.

1107

Loss by Exchange,

appropriation for Army disbursements

´abroad...

250

and in Alaska .

1043

for consulates .

347, 1036

for missions..

340, 1030

Louisiana,

appropriation for completing field notes

etc., surveys in ....

742

deficiency appropriation for relief of suf-

ferers from storm in.

789

assigned to fifth judicial circuit..

1131

INDEX .

cxliii

Louisiana Eastern Judicial District,

Page. | Lunacy Writs, D. C.,

Page.

marshal's salary increased..

838 appropriation for expenses ofexecuting.. 404, 995

parishes composing New Orleans division .. 1113 deficiency appropriation for.....

785, 1297

Baton Rouge division... terms of court..
Louisiana Western Judicial District, parishes composing Opelousas division. Alexandria division.
Shreveport division. Monroe division .. Lake Charles division..
terms of court. Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company,
may bridge Apalachicola River between Pensacola and River Junction, Fla..
Choctawhatchee River between Pensa-
cola and River Junction, Fla............. Escambia Bay, between Pensacola and
River Junction, Fla.. Louisville, Ga.,
preliminary examination of waterways to be made to Savannah from .....
Louisville, Ky., exchange of lands at Cave Hill National Cemetery, authorized .. terms of court at.

1113 1113
1113 1113 1114 1114 1114 1114
233
233
233
670
236 1113

Lupulin,

duty on.

36

Luquillo National Forest, P. R.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1249

Luxemburg, Netherlands and, appropriation for minister to....... for secretary of legation....
Lynchburg, Va.,

337, 1027 337, 1028

appropriation for public building, rent.... 1375

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent, etc..

207

terms of court at..

1128

Lyndon, Ill., dam authorized across Rock River at..... 920

Lynn, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

M.

M Street NE., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending........ 784

McAlester, Okla.,

1

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

Lovells Island Light Depot, Mass.,

McAlpine, Kenneth,

transferred to Governors Island.

535 may be appointed commander, Navy.... 844

Lovering, W. C. , late a Representative in Con-

navalrecord corrected ; pay, etc. , restricted. 844

gress,

duty.

844

deficiency appropriation for daughter of.... 805 McCall, Honorable Samuel Walker,

Lowell Observatory, Ariz.,

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

grant of lands, in Coconino National Forest

mission.....

898

for...

452 McCarthy, Major D. E.,

reversion for nonuser..

... 452 deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

timber rights excluded .......

452

counts.

778

Lowell, Percival,

McChesney, John D.,

granted lands in Coconino National Forest

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

for observatory; conditions ....... 452

counts..

795

Lower Makefield, Pa.,

McComb, Miss.,

bridge authorized across Delaware River,

appropriation for public building..

1376

Ewing, N. J., to. Lower Thoroughfare, Md.,

959 acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

690

appropriation for improvement of..

639 McCook, Nebr.,

Lozenges, duty on medicinal, etc., drugs in........................... 16

Ludington, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor...

654,727, 946, 1405

Ludwig, Edwin F.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized

682

terms of court at.

294, 1118

McCoy, Joseph S.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 127, 1315 McDowell, Alexander,

××××8×8×8

deficiency appropriation for extra services...
Lumber, duty on, planed or finished on one side....
one side and tongued and grooved ..... on two sides ....

deficiency appropriation forservices under,

127

preparingdigest of contested-election

cases.

805

33 McEnery, Samuel D., late a Senator,

33 deficiency appropriation for pay to widow

33

of..

1314

on three sides...

33 McGurrin, Charles H.,

on two sides and tongued and grooved . . 33 deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1315

on four sides...

33 McIntosh, Mildred, Creek Indian,

sawed whitewood, sycamore, and bass-

sales byguardian of, confirmed; restrictions

wood..

33

removed...

862

not specially provided for... on free list for two years, sawed, etc., in
Canada, the produce of forests on Saint John River, Me.....
Saint Croix River, Me.. Lumber River,

33 McKeesport and Mifflin Bridge Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, McKees-

port to Mifflin, Pa.............

822

91 McKeesport, Pa.,

91 bridge authorized across Monongahela

River to Mifflin from..........

822

bridge authorized across, in Robeson

McKKiinnlley Birthplace Memorial Association,

County, N. C......

178

D. C., The National,

Lumberton, N. C.,

appropriation for public building.

1375

acquiring site for public building at,.

authorized..

691

bridge authorized across Lumber River,

between Alma and..

178

incorporated, object, management, etc.... 1361 McLaurin, Anselm J., late a Senator,
deficiencyappropriation for pay towidowof 802
McMillan, Assistant Paymaster E. A., credit in accounts for suspended naval ration money allowances.. ....................... 1352

cxliv

INDEX.

McMillan Park, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation forsite, etc., for fountain in.. 717

for sidewalks and curbs..

978

for improving grounds ..

983

McMinn County, Tenn.,

bridge authorized across Hiwassee River,

by Bradley County and.....

187

McNeil Island, Wash.,

appropriation for penitentiary, mainte-

nance ..

752, 1429

McPherson, Kans.,

appropriation for public building..

1376

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

685

McPherson Place NW., D. C.,

west side of Fifteenth Street, between I

and K, changed to...

.325

Macaroni, etc.,

duty on..

35

Mace,

on free list, oil.

77

unground ..

79

Machine Guns, Navy,

appropriation for.. Machine Tools,

612, 1271

duty on.

32

Machinery,

duty on jute-manufacturing.

32

for repair, admitted free of import duty;

bond required....

87

materials for building, for ships in foreign trade, admitted free; regulations.... 88

Machines,

duty on, embroidery .

32

lace-making...

32

linotype...

32

sewing..

32

threshing; free from country imposing no

duty..

71

typesetting.

32

on free list, embroidery, prior to January 1,

1911 ....

32

tar and oil spreading, for roads, prior to

January 1, 1911 ..

32

for weaving linen from flax, prior to

January 1, 1911 ...

32

Mackerel,

duty on.

37

Mackinac Harbor, Mich., appropriation for improvement of......... 654

contracts for improvement of, authorized;

limit..

946

Macomb, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1375

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

685

Macon, Ga.,

terms of court at..

1109

Macon, Mo.,

appropriation for public building.......... 1375

MacRae and Company, Hugh,

may dam Savannah River at Cherokee

Shoals, S. C.....

922

Madden, William,

deficiency appropriation for....... 129, 807, 1319

Madder,

on free list, and extracts of.

... 77

Madison National Forest, Mont.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Madison, S. Dak.,

appropriation for public building.....

1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

692

Madison, Wis.,

appropriation for public building...

705

,terms of court at......

1130

88 THE FE
* * * * **** ** * * * * *

Magazines,

Page.

dutyonlithographicallyprinted fashion, etc. 63.

special regulations for free entry of serial,

on one declaration..............

92

Magnesia,

duty on, calcined, medicinal .

14

carbonate of, medicinal.....

14

medicinal....

14

sulphate of...

14

Magnesite,

duty on, brick..

17

on free list, crude or calcined, not purified. 77

Magnesium,

duty on, and alloys...

29

Magnetic Observations,

appropriation for continuing, under Coast

Survey..

756, 1433

Mahaleb, or Mazzard Cherry,

duty on stocks, etc., of.

37

Mahogany,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.......

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only...

81

Mail Bags, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for....

362, 1334

equipments for Alaska, Porto Rico,

Philippine Islands, Hawaii, etc. 362, 1334

experts to examine repair shops meth-

ods..

362

for labor in repair shops.

362, 1334

for repair shop, Chicago ..

362, 1334

for freight or expressage on empty

bags ....

362, 1335

in emergency cases empty bags may be

returned in the mails; payment per

pound..

1335

thirty days' annual leave to employees of,

repair shops..

1336

Mail Cars (see Railway Post Office Car Service).

Mail Lettings, General,

advertisements to be posted only in post

offices therein named..

366

Mail Locks, etc., Postal Service,

appropriation for.......

362, 1334

for attachments for mail equipments. 362, 1334

for labor in repair shops.....

362, 1334

Mail Transportation, appropriation for star routes...

361, 1339

discontinued when duplicated by rural

delivery.....

361, 1339

Alaska emergency service..

361

for star routes in Alaska..

1333

for steamboat, etc., routes.

361, 1333

for messenger service.

361, 1333

for pneumatic tubes, etc..

361, 1333

for wagon service....

362, 1334

for equipment, etc.

362, 1334

for railroad routes..

362, 1334

rate on land grant roads reduced...

362

expenses of weighing mails.

1334

commission to examine cost of han-

dling, etc., second-class mails..

1334

for expenses of commission...

1334

for tabulating returns of railroads carry-

ing mails..

362, 1335

for railway post-office car service..... 363, 1335

car conditions required..

363, 1335

for electric and cable car service..... 364, 1336

compensation; mail cars, etc....... 364, 1336

routes outside of cities...

364, 1336

unusual conditions; substitution of

wagon service..

364, 1336

for foreign mails ...

364, 1337

deficiency appropriation for boat service.. 224

for railroad routes..

224,812, 1325

for star routes....

224, 812, 1325

INDEX .

cxlv

25

2

Mail Transportation-Continued.

Page.

extension of contract routes authorized;.

pay........

1339

limitation...

1339

Maine,

assigned to first judicial circuit..

1131

consent of Congress to construction, etc., of

bridge across Saint John River by

Canada and.

904

Maine Judicial District,

terms of court.

1114

" Maine," U. S. Battleship, raising and removal of wreck from Habana

Harbor directed .

353

bodies to be interred in Arlington Ceme-

tery....

353

mast to be used for monument.

353

consent of Cuba to be obtained.

353

appropriation for expenses..

353, 1407

deficiency appropriation for raising wreck

of, additional...

789

Maize,

duty on.

35

Makah Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of..... 286, 1074

Maker of Knives, etc.,

name of, to be stamped in blades of im-

ported articles.

27

Malacca Joints, India, on free list, in the rough, cut for canes, etc. 81

Malden River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of..

934

preliminary examination of, to be made... 671

Malheur County Court, Oreg.,

bridge across Snake River built by the Ontario Bridge Commission and,

legalized...

191

may bridge Snake River, at Ontario, Oreg. 179 Malheur National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Malleable Iron Castings,

duty on.

26

Malloy, William M.,

deficiency appropriation for compilation of

treaties, etc......

775

Mall, Barley,

duty on.

35

Malt Extract,

duty on..

41

Maltby Building, D. C., appropriation for miscellaneous items.. 472, 1175

deficiency appropriation for repairs. 127, 804, 1316

Manchester, Conn.,

appropriation for public building..

1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

689

Mandamus Proceedings,

commerce court to enforce interstate com-

merce regulations by............ 539, 1149

Mandan, N. Dak.,

appropriation for public building..

1375

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

687

Manetti Multiflora Rose,

duty on stocks, etc., of.

37

Maneuvering Grounds, etc., Permanent Army, commission of officers to examine and re-

port on advisability, etc., of, near

Chickamauga Park.

1457

proposed donation of land in Tennessee

for use of State troops, etc..........

1457

Maneuvers, Army,

'allotments to States, etc., available for

expenses of militia, 1908..

329

participation of organized militia in; ex-

penses, etc..

329

8S740°-VOL 36, PT 1--11-103

Manganese, on free list, oxide and ore of.....

Page. 77

Manganiferous Iron Ore,

duty on.

21

Mangel- Wurzel Seed,

on free list.....

79

Manhasset, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made....

673

Manhattan City and Interurban Railway Com-

pany,

granted right of way across reservation at

Fort Riley, Kans.....

1363

Manicure Knives,

duty on.

26

Manifests, Export,

deficiency appropriation for refunding

stamps used on..

809

Manifold Paper,

duty on.

63

Manila Fiber,

duty on, cables and cordage.. on free list, binding twine; retaliatory duty. 73

not dressed or manufactured, not spe-

cially provided for .....

76

Manila Hemp,

duty on, braids, laces, etc.....

64

hats, bonnets, and hoods...

65

Manistee, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

654, 946

for public building.

705

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made...

672

Manistique, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 654, 946

Manitowoc, Wis.,

appropriation for public building..

705

preliminary examination to be made of

harborand river....

656, 955

Mankato, Minn.,

terms of court at..

1116

Manna,

on free list..

77

Manokin River, Md.,

.appropriation for improvement of.............. 639, 937

preliminary examination to be made of... 954

Mansfield, Ohio,

appropriation for public building........................... 1375

Mantels,

duty on, slate

21

tile ..

17

Manti National Forest, Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

Mantua Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of.............. 636,936

ManualofSurveying Instructions,

deficiency appropriation for preparing, etc. ,

revised edition of..

797

Manufactured Articles,

F

duty on, not specially provided for...

71

Manufacturer ofImported Merchandise,

declaration to be made by, with invoice of

goods not actually purchased ...... 95

punishment for false...

95

Manufactures,

duty on flax, hemp, ramie, etc. , not spe-

cially provided for..

51

paper, not specially provided for..

64

Manufactures Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for chief, assistant, clerks,

etc.

525, 1227

for collating foreign tariffs, etc..

525, 1227

deficiency appropriation for collecting

commercial statistics.

226

cxlvi

INDEX .

Manufactures, Collections Illustrating Prog- Page. ress of,

on free list, by societies, etc. , not for sale;

conditions.

81

Manufactures, Convict Labor,

importation of, prohibited.

87

Manufactures ofthe United States, census of, to be taken in 1910, etc. census schedules of inquiries...

4,227

to relate to year ending December 31,

preceding enumeration ...

228

confined to establishments in operation.. 4,228

limited to factory system establishments. 4, 228

turpentine and rosin industry...

4, 228

factory officials to correctly answer census

99

inquiries.

punishment for failure .

information to be used only for statis-

tics; restriction on publication ..

Manufacturing Warehouses , Bonded (see Ware-

houses, Bonded Manufacturing).

Manures,

on free list..

76

14 88280

substances used only for.

76

Manures, Artificial,

on free list, sulphuric acid for manufacture of..

Manuscripts,

on free list..

77

Manzano National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 427, 1249

Maple Sirup,

duty on .

34

Maple Sugar,

duty on...

34

Maps,

duty on, not specially provided for ....

64

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc .; limit..

74

for the United States, or Library of Congress ....
printed more than 20 years..

Maps ofthe United States,

appropriation for connected, etc.; distribu-

tion...

513, 1215

forseparate State and Territorial. 513, 1215

for post-route, etc.

522, 1224

for geological..

743, 1418

deficiency appropriation for State, showing enlarged homestead designations .... 797
Maps, War Department,

appropriation for publication of engi

neer..

730, 1406

Maquoketa, Iowa,

appropriation for public building.

1375

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

.689

Marble,

2223

duty on, monuments, etc.

21

rough, etc.

21

Marble. Works in,

888

on free list, produced more than 100 years

before importation .....

82

Marbles, Toy,

duty on, not specially provided for........ 66

Marcushook, Pa.,

appropriation for maintenance ofice harbor. 638

Mare Island, Cal.,

appropriation for navy-yard, public

works....

616, 1275

for naval magazine, public works.... 617, 1277 deficiency appropriation for public works.. 212

Maricopa County, Ariz.,

lands granted to Arizona to pay bonds is-

sued by..

573

212 22

Maries County, Mo.,

Page.

transferred from western district to eastern

division of eastern........

897

Marietta, Ga.,

obsolete brass cannon donated to State for

Confederate cemetery at..

875

Marine Corps,

appropriation for officers' quarters, etc.,

Philadelphia Navy Yard.

618

for officers' quarters, Norfolk Navy Yard 618

limit for officers' quarters..

618

for pay of officers, active list..

624, 1284

retired list..

624, 1284

for enlisted men .

624, 1284

retired enlisted men.

625, 1284

for undrawn clothing.

625, 1284

for mileage to officers..

625, 1284

for commutation of quarters without

troops...

625, 1284

for pay of civil force.

625, 1284

allowances, etc. , assistant paymasters'

clerks ...

625, 1284

for provisions; commutation of rations 625, 1285

for clothing.

626, 1285

for fuel, etc..

626, 1285

for military stores, etc.

626, 1285

for purchase of Springfield rifles from

Army .

626, 1286

for transportation and recruiting. for repairs of barracks..

626, 1286 626, 1286

per diem, enlisted men.

627, 1286

for forage..

627, 1286

for commutation of quarters, officers,

with troops, etc...

627, 1286

for contingent...

627, 1286

removal of disallowances for motor ve-

hicles, etc..

1287

for transporting remains of, dying

abroad .

619, 1278

for improvements, etc., rifle range, Win-

throp, Md..

1277

deficiency appropriation for contingent. 212,

221, 226, 791, 794, 810, 1302, 1305, 1322

for pay..

221, 225, 791, 809, 813, 1322, 1326

for provisions..

221, 794, 809, 1305

for transportation and recruiting..

221,

791, 794, 801, 813, 1302

for fuel.

791, 794, 1305

for military stores.

794

for forage..

794

for commutation of quarters..

794.

for hire of quarters.

809

for Lieut. Col. William C. Dawson, Maj.

Harold C. Reisinger, and Capt.

Davis C. Wills ...

1305

officers detailed on investigations may ad-

minister oaths.

899

penalty for discriminating, by theaters, etc., against wearers ofuniform of... 963
retired officers to receive commissions for

advanced rank when promoted .... 1354

Marine Hospitals (see also Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service),

appropriation for repairs, preservation,

etc.

708, 1385

for Chicago, Ill., elevator.

710

for Detroit, Mich. , smoking rooms.

710

for Mobile, Ala. , stairways.

710

for maintenance..

716, 1394

deficiency appropriation for maintenance. 1295

time extended for treating fire sufferers in

Chelsea, Mass....

184

Marine Schools,

loan of naval vessels, equipment, etc., for

use of, atdesignated ports.....

1353

INDEX .

cxlvii

Marine Schools-Continued.

Page.

loan of naval vessels, equipment, etc., for

use of; instruction in navigation, ma-

rine engineering, etc.. required ... 1353

appropriations authorized in aid of..................... - 1353

limitations..............

1353

detail of naval officers as instructors, etc... 1353

return of vessel if school discontinued .. 1353

not to be penal institutions..........

1354

Marinette, Wis.,

bridge authorized across Menominee River,

by Menominee and.....

868

may bridge Menominee River, to Menomi-

nee, Mich....

350

Marion, Ind.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home....

734, 1411

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home......

1301

Marshals, United States Courts,

Page. ·

appropriation for salaries, etc.; ad-

vances..

749, 1426

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc ... 224,

799, 812, 1324

for Commerce Court......

890

appointment for Commerce Court; salary,

etc....

540

duties of, attending Commerce Court.... 1148

attending Court of Customs Appeals.... 1144

relating to parole prisoners..

820

field deputies authorized...

1355

appointment; compensation and ex-

penses..

1355

additional allowance, etc..

1355

double fees for certain States omitted... 1355

oaths to accounts may be administered by,

and chief office deputies.......

927

salaries in Texas made uniform..

828

Marion, Ohio,

salary increased, Louisiana judicial dis-

appropriation for public building...................... 705

trict.....

838

Marion, S. C.,

services to be performed for Court of Cus-

appropriation for public building.

1376

toms Appeals by

105

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Marshmallow,

thorized..

692 on free list, root, etc., unmanufactured .... 77

Maritime Jurisdiction, jurisdiction of United States courts exclusive.of State, in civil causes of...... 1161
Maritime Law, International Conference on,

Marshyhope Creek, Md., appropriation for improvement of....... 639, 937
Marten, Alaska, punishment for unauthorized killing of.... 327

deficieney appropriation for expenses of

Martin, Tenn.,

representation at..

203 appropriation for public building....... 1376

MaritimeLiens (see Liens, Maritime).

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Market Value (see Actual Market Value of

thorized....

692

Imported Merchandise). Markets, D. C.,

Martinsburg, W. Va., terms of court at..

1014, 1129

appropriation for market masters; ex-

penses, etc......................................

377,969

for repairs to..

383, 975.

Markham, Henry H.,

reappointed on Board of Managers, Volun-

teer Soldiers' Home....

876

Maryland,

appropriation for surveysin aid of, shellfish

commission....

-.756, 1433

assigned to fourth judicial circuit.............

1131

Maryland Judicial District,

additional district judge authorized.... 201, 1087

Marking Imported Articles, countryoforigin, required in English words. 85

packages to be labeled, etc., with country

of origin and quantity of contents... 85

punishment for violations...

86

Marlboro, Mass.,

appropriation for public building.......................... 1376 Marlin, Tex.,

no successor to be appointed for existing

judge....

201, 1087

division of business...

202

circuit judge to decide disagreement as

to...

202

deficiency appropriation for additional

judge..

799

terms of court...

1114

construction of public building authorized

at.....

683

Marquette Bay, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge, Lake Superior........................ 654, 946

Marquette, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts.....

654, 946

terms of court at..

1115

Marquette National Forest, Mich., appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 427, 1249

Marrons, Nuts,

on free list, crude......

77-

Marrow,

on free list, crude...

77

Marshal ofthe Supreme Court,

appointment...

1152

salary; duties, etc.....

1153

Marshall, Mo.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

682

Marshall, Tex.,

construction of public building authorized

at.:

683

Maryland Schoolfor Colored Deaf Mutes,

appropriation for instruction of District

pupils in......

398,989

"Maryland," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs...

621

Maryville, Mo.,

appropriation for public building.

1376

limit ofcost increased, public building.... - 078

Maryville, Tenn., appropriation for public building....... 1376

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

.692

Masks,

duty on paper or pulp......

70

Mason City, Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing; sewer license....

780

Masonic Order in Oklahoma, sale of lands authorized to grand lodge.......... 923

Masonic Orphanage, etc., Okla.,

sale of Cheyenne and Arapaho agency and

school lands, etc., authorized

for......

190

Marshals, Consular Courts, appropriation for,.

Masonic Temple Association, D. C., 346, 1035 rights of stockholders to vote amended.... 239

cxlviii

INDEX .

22 ****

88888888888 158585

Massachusetts, assigned to first judicial circuit. return of field guns, etc., sold to, permitted ....
appropriation for.. Massachusetts Avenue NW., D. C.,.
proceedings to condemn land for extending, etc., from Wisconsin Avenue to District line...
appropriation for expenses, etc .. Massachusetts Judicial District,
terms of court.. Massey, Honorable Z. D.,
appointed on Board of Managers, Volunteer Soldiers' Home...

Page. 1131 602 603
584 585 1114
1459

Massillon, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1376

Masters, United States Courts (see Receivers,

United States Courts).

Matagorda Bay, Tex.,

appropriation for constructing waterway

between Brazos River and.............

650

Matawan Creek, N. J.,

88888

appropriation for improvement of....... 636, 936

Matches,

duty on, fancy .......

66

friction or lucifer..

66

wax.

66

Materialsfor Public Works,

remedies of act, extended to parties supply-

ing contractors on Belle Fourche'

irrigation project .................

1170

Materials, Imported,

drawback allowed on, used in building

ships for foreign account.....

90

used in manufacture of articles exported. 90

used for articles made in bonded manufac-

· turing warehouses for export, ex-

empt from duty..

89

Materials ofForeign Production,

for construction of vessels in foreign trade,

admitted free; proof required....

88

restriction on coastwise trade.

88

G*G*NAAAAN

if built for foreign account, vessels not

allowed in coastwise trade ..

88

Matinicus, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

Mais,

duty on, cocoa fiber

70

corticene ...

49

flax, hemp, jute, etc ..

49

linoleum...

49

oilcloth

49

rattan .

70

wool..

55

Mats and Matlings,

'duty on, cotton .

55

Mattaponi River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 640, 938

Mattawoman Creek,

bridge authorized across, Indian Head,

Md...

1086

Mattings, duty on, China ..... cocoa fiber.. India straw.
Japan.. rattan .
straw, etc., not otherwise provided for.. Mattituck, N. Y. ,
appropriation for improvement of harbor; condition ....
Mattoon, Ill., appropriation for public building....... limit of cost increased , public building...

49 70 49 49 70 49
. 635
1376 677

89

Maumee River, Ohio and Ind.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674

report, etc. , to be made on proposed canal

from Lake Erie to Lake Michigan by

way of...

956

Maurice River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

636

Maximum Tariff,

deficiency appropriation for securing in-

formation, etc. , relating to ...............

119

after March 31, 1910, 25 per cent ad valo-

rem to be added to rates in tariff act. 82

not levied upon imports from countries im-

posing no restrictions on products of

United States, etc......

82

announcement by proclamation..

82

restored if discriminations are made.

83

imposed on articles imported directly or

otherwise....

83

Maysville, Ky.,

deficiency appropriation for public build- '

ing, sewer.

1294

Mazzard Cherry Seedlings,

duty on.

37

Meal,

duty on corn..

25

oat...

35

Measurement of the Earth, International Geo-

detic Associationfor,

appropriation for payment of quota.... 342, 1032 Measures, International Bureau ofWeights and,
appropriation for annual contribution.. 341, 1031 Meats,

duty on extracts of, not specially provided

for....

38

fresh....

38

fresh game, not birds.

38

prepared or preserved , not specially pro-

vided for..

38

Meats in the Home, Economical Use of,

printing ordered of Farmers' Bulletin No.

391, on...

880

Mechanical Equipmentfor Public Buildings,

appropriation for.. deficiency appropriation for.

708, 1385 1293

for heating apparatus .

219,808, 813, 1320

Mechanically Ground Wood Pulp,

duty on.

60

additional from country imposing export

duty, etc., on printing paper...

61

on free list, from country imposing no

charges on exportation, etc ........ 60

Medals,

on free list, bestowed as prizes, etc........ 77

Medford, Oreg.,

appropriation for public building...

1376

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized...

687

terms of court at......

1122

Media, Pa.,

.

appropriation for public building....... 1376

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

691

Medical Charities, D. C.,

appropriation for..

407,999

acceptance of voluntary medical at-

tendance for, authorized...

409

Medical Department, Army,

appropriation for enlisted men, Hospital

Corps; longevity.....

246, 1040

service school detachment.

1040

for pay of officers ; longevity .

248, 1041

for hospital matrons..

249, 1042

for superintendent nurse corps .

249, 1042

for nurses (female)...

249, 1042

INDEX .

cxlix

Medical Department, Army Continued.

Page.

appropriation for veterinarians; lon-

gevity.....

249,1042

for dental surgeons.

249, 1042

for contract surgeons..

249, 1042

for supplies...

258, 1053

for preventing, etc., epidemic dis-

eases.

258, 1054

for employees, nurses, etc......... 258, 1054

for Hot Springs Hospital, Ark.

258, 1054

Members ofthe Sixtieth Congress,

.Page. "

distribution of documents, reports, etc., to

retiring, repealed.......

183:

Memorial Arch, Valley Forge, Pa.,

appropriation for construction..

1402

expenditure authorized for construction.. 822

plans, etc....

822

Memorial ofPerry's Victory on Lake Erie,

appropriation for, and aid to centennial

celebration at Put-in-Bay Island... 108)1

for museum ; library. for care of insane Filipinos. ... . for artificial limbs, etc.

259, 1054 259
731, 1407

for appliances for disabled soldiers... 731, 1407

for trusses for disabled soldiers.

731, 1407.

for repairs Medical Museum Building. 1407

Memphis, Tenn.,

terms ofcourt at.

1125

Mena, Ark., 1:

appropriation for public building..

1376

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

688

for Providence Hospital, D. C....... 731, 1407 Menominee Harbor and River, Mich.,

for Garfield Hospital, D. C....... 731, 1408 appropriation for improvement of..

656

for Children's Hospital, D. C....... 731, 1408

deficiency appropriation for....

1321

for supplies, destroyed by fire, medical

supply depot

$790

Dental Corps established; appointments,

rank, etc...

1054.

officers of Medical Reserve Corps to have

.Menominee Indian Reservation, Wis.;

cutting, etc., of dead and down timber on,

authorized..

-1076 .

regulations to be prescribed..

1076

use of green timber in logging..........  1077

maximum amount, etc..

.1077

constructing roads, expenses, etc...

1077

credit for all Army service for retire- 1

forest investigations, etc., on Indian reser-

ment.....

.580, 1348

vations not applicable to........ 271, 1060

fedical Museum, Army,

Menominee Indians, Wis.,

appropriation for preserving, etc., speci-

mens..

259, 1054

for repairs.

1407

Medical Reserve Corps, Army,

testimony in claims against, to be taken by

Court of Claims..

287

expenses and findings, ifallowed, tobe paid

from tribal funds..

287

retirement of officers at 70, after 40

years'volunteer or regular, etc., serv-

ice

580

as first lieutenant.

.).

580

retirement at 70,' and. after 40 years of

if rejected, byclaimants;bond required.. 287

claims of logging contractors against, re-

ferred to Court of Claims.

287

settlement by Secretary of the Interior

on mutual agreement......

287

total active service in the Army.... 1348 Menominee, Mich.,

tohaverank, pay, etc.; offirst lieutenant. 1348 bridge authorized across Menominee River, '

Medical Supply Depot, Army,

by Marinette, Wis., and...

868 .

deficiency appropriation for replacing sup-

'may bridge Menominee River, to Mari-

plies destroyed by fire at..

790

nette, Wis.

350.

Medicinal Preparations,

Menominee River,

drawback allowed on domestic alcohol used

bridge authorized across, Marinette, Wis.,

in manufacture of, exported ...

90

to Menominee, Mich ......

350,868

duty on, containing alcohol, not specially

Menomonie, Wis.,

provided for.... mercurial..

"16 construction of public building authorized 16 at. 684 .

not specially provided tor....

16 Mercerized Cotton Cloth,

Medicine Bow.National Forest, Wyo.,

duty on..

.47

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Medicines, Adulterated, etc.,

appropriation for expenses, preventing

Bale, etc., of.. Medomac River, Me.,.

432, 1255

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Meeker, Colo.,

granted lands for public park......

460

Meerschaum,

on free list, crude and unmanufactured ... 77

Melada,

duty on......

34

Merchandise, Abandoned,

from sunken vessels, in American waters,

may be brought in, free of duty.... 88

Merchants and Manufacturers Exchange,

articles solely for exhibition at, may be

imported free of duty under bond... 1357 ..

sales for future delivery....

1358

payment of duty on articles with-

drawn...

1358

no implication of invitation to make ex- ·

hibits.

1358

extension of time permitted..

1358

Melons,

Mercurial MedicinalPreparations,

appropriation for investigating methods of

duty on .

16

growing, shipping, etc .......

422 Meridian Hill Park, D. C.,

for experimental exports, etc...

422 acquiring land for, authorized; location ... 700

Members ofthe House of Representatives,

appropriation for compensation...... 473, 1175

for mileage...

473,1176

for clerk hire.

478, 1180

for stationery.

183

publicity to contributions for elections of.. 822

cost; appropriation authorized; reim-

bursement of one-half.

700

maintenance ..

700

condemnation proceedings if purchase price

not satisfactory.

700

title to vest in United States..

700

punishment for practicing in Court of

payment on acquiring title..

701

Claims.....

1136

control, etc...

701

unpaid bills for speeches, etc., to be de-'

· deficiency appropriation for condemning

ducted from salaries of delinquent.. 1446

land for

1310

cl

INDEX .

Meridian, Miss., terms of court at.

Page. 1116

Mermentau, La.,

appropriation for waterway from Franklin

to..

648

changes authorized in inland terway

from Franklin to ....

942

Mermentau River, La.,

appropriation for improvement of......

648

for waterway to Sabine River......

648

preliminary examination, to be made of... 955

Merrimac River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 632

Mesa, Jose Antonio,

deficiency appropriation for paying award

of Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion to.

129

Mesa Verde National Park, Colo.,

appropriation for protection, etc ..

745, 1421

deficiency appropriation for expenses..

796

leases, and permits in, authorized ..

796

Mesh Bags,

8885898

duty on, gold .

68

platinum .

68

silver, etc..

67

Messenger Service, Mail,

appropriation for...

361, 1333

Messengers,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives...

476, 1178

for, Senate..

471, 1173

883

Messengers to Committees, Senate, appropriation for.......
Messmore Place NW., D. C., name changed to Mozart place.
Metal-Covered Paper, duty on .

469, 1171 1347 62

Metal Threads (see also Tinsel Wire), duty on, of tinsel wire, lame, or lah ...... 30
Metallic Mineral Substances,
duty on, crude, not specially provided for. 30 Metals,

duty on articles or wares of, not specially

provided for.....

33

unwrought, not specially provided for:. 30

Metals and Manufactures of,

Schedule C, Tariff of 1909

21

Melanilic Acid,

on free list..

74

Meteorological Information, cooperation ofWeather Bureau with other

bureaus, societies, etc., directed for

disseminating .

418, 1237

Meteorological Informationfor Pilot Charts,

to be promptly furnished to Hydrographic

Office by Weather Bureau ....

508

Methods ofBusiness, Executive Departments,

appropriation for expert inquiries, etc., for

improving . Metronomes,

703, 1363

duty on.

70

Metropolitan Police, D. C. (see Police, D. C.).

Melsker, Glen R.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

1308

Mexican Centennial Celebration,

commission created to represent United

States at...

882

deficiency appropriation for.

775

Mexican War,

deficiency appropriation for volunteers. 809, 1326

Mexican Kickapoo Indians,

appropriation for presenting fraudulent

conveyances of allotments..

748

deficiency appropriation for prosecutions,

.fraudulent deeds for.....

123

2828

Mexico,
appropriation for ambassador to .. . for secretary of embassy..
for second secretary.
for third secretary..

Page. 337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1028

for Water Boundary Commission.... 342, 1032

for expenses of arbitrating title to Chami-

zal tract with .

1034

deficiency appropriation for commission to attend centennial celebration of Re-

public of.

775

commission created to represent United

States at celebration of centennial of

Republic of..

882

tick-infested cattle may be admitted below quarantine line in Texas from..
Mexico, Mo.,
appropriation for public building.. Miah Maul Shoal, Delaware Bay,

1240 1376

appropriation for light and fog signal sta-

tion...

1431

limit of cost increased, light and fog signal

station.

535

Miami, Fla.,
appropriation for public building .. terms of court at.

1376 1108

Mica,

duty on.

18

Michard, Eloise Bentalou Sanger,

deficiency appropriation for paying French
spoliation claim to administrator of. Michigan,
assigned to sixth judicial circuit.... consent of Congress to agreement for juris-
diction of State laws over Lake Mich-

205 1131

igan, byWisconsin, Illinois, Indiana,

and..

882

Michigan City, Ind.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor......

657, 947

Michigan Eastern Judicial District, counties composing northern division. southern division .
terms of court..

1114 1114 1115

Michigan National Forest, Mich.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1249

Michigan Western Judicial District,

counties composing northern division ..

1115

southern dívision .

1115

terms of court............

1115

Microscopes,

duty on..

21

Middlesboro, Ky., appropriation for public building..

1376

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...........

685

Middletown, Conn.,

appropriation for public building..

1376

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

689

Middletown, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building............... 1376

Midway, Ga.,

monument to be erected in memory of

Generals James Screven and Daniel

Stewart at..

1352

appropriation for construction, etc..

1352

Mifflin, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Monongahela

River from McKeesport to....... 822

Miles City, Mont.,

appropriation for public building.

1376

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

686

allowed pumping station, etc., on Fort

Keogh Reservation...

1027

INDEX .

cli

Miles River, Md.,

Page. Military Academy-Continued .

preliminary examination to be made of... 954 appropriation for waterworks.

Page. 322, 1026

Milford, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 633

Milford Haven, Va., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 639,937

Military Academy,

appropriation for support of the..

312, 1015

for pay of professors ...

312, 1015

.civilian appointment for head of de-

partment of English and history,

authorized...

312

for cadet hospital..

322, 1026

for cadet barracks .

322, 1026

for roads, etc....

322, 1026

for preserving, etc., historic sites.

322

for restoring Fort Putnam

1026

for skeleton mortar emplacement...

323

for organ for new chapel..

323

for improvement of grounds, etc.; pur

chase of Cranston's Hotel ...

323

successors to cadets to be admitted

for chaplain, and master of the sword . 312, 1015

for pay of cadets.....

' 312, 1015

for extra pay to officers...

312, 1015

chief surgeon to be professor of mili-

tary hygiene..

312

for constructing quartermaster

313, 1016

for longevity......

313, 1016

for enlisted men.

313, 1016

after three years' course...

323

for models, relief plans, etc.

1026

for enlarging buildings, etc..

323, 1027

hazing regulations, amended; court-

martial trials, effect of dismissal.... 323

disposal of pending cases...

324

Juan Torroella y Rooney, of Cuba, ad-

mitted for instruction..

324

for band.... for field musicians.
for general Army service...

313, 1016 313, 1016 313, 1016

for extra-duty pay, quartermasters serv

ice ...

..... 313, 1017

for cavalry detachment..

313, 1017

for artillery detachment; extra to gun-

ners..

314, 1017

for extra pay, first reenlistments ..... 314, 1017

for travel; clothing, not drawn; interest

on deposits.

314, 1017

for extra pay, detached service...... 314, 1017

acting first sergeant, engineers..

1019

duplication forbidden.

315, 1019

for pay of civilians....

316, 1019

details under Cuba and Panama al-

lowed Army officers; limit.

324

volunteers, decision of department as

to date of muster, conclusive...

*324

pumping station for Miles City, Mont.,

allowed on Fort Keogh Reserva-

tion ....

1027

deficiency appropriation for transporta-

.tion...

210

for fuel, etc... for stationery. for commandant of cadets..

790, 1302 790. 1302

admission authorized for instruction of

Melchor Batista, of Cuba...

1458

two Chinese subjects .

1456

for expenses, Board of Visitors..

317, 1021 Military Commissions, Army,

for contingencies, superintendent... 317, 1021 appropriation for expenses.

249,1043

for repairs and improvements, for fuel, lights, etc.....

317, 1021 Military Establishment (see Army). 317, 1021 Military Information, Army,

for postage, stationery, etc.. for transportation .

318, 1021 appropriation for contingent expenses .. 244, 1037

318, 1021

for translator and librarian.......

249,1043

for printing; composing machine.. 318, 1022 Military Ornaments,

for expenses, department of cavalry, ar-

duty on silver, etc ..

67

tillery, and infantry tactics..... 318, 1022 | Military Parks (see National Parks).

new gymnasium, etc....

318 Military Posts (see also Military Reserva-

for department of civil and military en-

tions),

gineering..

319, 1022

for department of natural and experi-

mental philosophy..

319, 1022

for department of mathematics.. ... 319, 1023

appropriation for equipping officers'

schools...

253, 1048

for constructing roads,, walks, wharves,

and drainage....

257,1051

for department of chemistry, mineral-

ogy and geology.... for department of drawing.

319, 1023 319, 1023

for department of modern languages.. 319, 1023

for department of law.

319, 1023

for establishing water and sewage sys-

tems .

257, 1051

land for water supply, etc., at Fort D.

A. Russell, Wyo..

1052

Fort Meade, S. Dak..

1052

for department of practical military en-

gineering.....

320, -1023

for department of ordnance and gun-

nery...

320, 1023

for construction, etc., of buildings. 721, 1398

restrictions...

721, 1398

for barracks and quarters, seacoast de-

fenses....

721

for department of military hygiene... 320, 1024

for department of English and history 320, 1024

for lectures.

320, 1024

for miscellaneous and incidental ex-

penses..

320, 1024

for lighting, plumbing, etc..

320, 1024

for library, etc.. for band instruments, etc..

321, 1024 321, 1024

for seacoast defenses, Philippine Is-

lands and Hawaii.

721, 1398

for cavalry post, Hawaii.

721

for Presidio, San Francisco, Cal.

721

for electric plant, Corregidor Island,

Philippines....

1398

for Army supply depot, Fort Mason,

Cal...

1399

for laundry and mess utensils.

321, 1025

for Fort Monroe, Va.....

722, 1399

for policing barracks, etc .... for cadets' barracks, furniture.. for children's school...
for fire engine, etc....

321, 1025 Military Prisons,

321, 1025 appropriation.for completing, Fort Leaven-

321, 1025

worth, Kans....

722

1025 convicts limited to actual subsistence..... 210

for buildings and grounds..

321, 1025 Military Records,

for ordnance museum, laboratory, etc. 321, 1025

for ordnance laboratory, etc..

321

for soldiers' hospital.....

321, 1025

private laws for correcting, not to preclude

granting of pensions subsequent to

their enactment...

1458

clii

INDEX .

£ 28 88 * 22 g ***

Military Reservations (see also Military Posts), Fort Niobrara, Nebr., time extended for dam across Niobrara River...........
right of way, etc. Fort Trumbull, Conn., transferred to Rev-
enue-Cutter Service .

Page. 920 921
906

right of way granted on Fort D. A. Russell,

Wyo....

1012

Fort Leavenworth, Kans..

875

Fort Mackenzie, Wyo...

1011

Military Reservations, Abandoned, appropriation for survey, etc.. deficiency appropriation for..

741, 1417 1326

Fort Bridger, Wyo., Carey Act made appli-

cable to lands of...

913

Military Road NW., D. C.,

>condemnation proceedings for extending.. 242

appropriation for expenses..

242

Military Schools, Private, etc.,

maximum number of pupils required for

issue ofnaval equipment to, reduced . 613

Military Stores, Marine Corps,

appropriation for purchase of Springfield

rifles from Army.

626, 1285

Military Stations (see Military Posts).

Militia Affairs Division, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc., office of Chief

of Staff....

1206

for miscellaneous expenses.

1206

for rent.....

1206

chief to be detailed from general officers of

the line...

1037

Militia, D. C. (see also National Guard, D. C.),

appropriation for expenses.. for pay of troops.

411, 1004 411, 1004

allowance to officers for uniforms, etc.. 1004

deficiency appropriation for naval battal-

ion, pay..

787, 1298

forstorehouse for navalbattalion........ 1298

Militia, Naval,

appropriation for armingand equipping 612, 1272

Militia, Organized, appropriation for expenses at service

schools ...

250, 1043

for expenses encampments with Regu-

lars....

251, 1044

reimbursement to Frank M. Rumbold,

adjutant general, Missouri....

1044

for coast artillery equipment, etc., for... 1045

for issue of standard automatic pistols to

States, etc., for..

1057

exchange of ammunition..

1057

forprocuring, etc., field artillery material

for issue to...

1058

deficiency appropriation for encampments,

etc.

220, 1321

commission of Army officers to examine

and report on advisability of estab-

ing maneuvering camps for State

troops, etc., on proposed donation of

lands in Tennessee

1457

credit directed of accounts disallowed

States, for participation of, in Army

maneuvers, etc...

123

details ofArmy officers as instructors, etc.,

upon request of governor...

1045

position of officers, when different corps of

Regulars happen to join with..

234

rank and precedence of officers, on duty

with other forces ....

234

participation in Army maneuvers, etc ..

329

District ofColumbía added ...

329

pay, subsistence, etc.

329.

expenses not to be paid from Army ap-

propriations....

329

1

Militia, Organized-Continued.

Page.

participation in Army maneuvers ; expenses

notto be paidfrom annual allotment

to States, etc.

329

statement to Congress..

329

command of post, etc., to be Regular

Army officer..

329

rules governing.

330

Militia Division, War Department,

appropriation for rent...

504

Militia, The, "

allotment to States, etc., available for ex-

penses ofjoint maneuvers, 1908.... 329

credit for disbursements directed ...

329

restriction on receiving back articles sold

to States, etc., for..

603

Milk,

duty on fresh .......

36

preserved, condensed, etc.

36

sugar of..

36

Milk, D. C.,

appropriation for inspection of dairy farms,

etc., byhealth officials....

402, 993

Milk River Irrigation System, Mont.,

appropriation for expenses, Fort Belknap

Indian Reservation .

277, 1066

advances to allottees a lien on patent

in fees....

1066

Mill Creek, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 674

Mill Shafting,

duty on steel ..

23

Millard County, Utah,

lands reserved for reservoirs, etc., in, re-

stored to entry...

932

Milledgeville, Ga. ,

appropriation forpublic building.

705, 1376

limit ofcost increased, public building..

677

Miller, Edwin,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 806

Millinery Ornaments, duty on feathers, artificial flowers, etc..... 66

silver, etc....

67

Mills Building, D. C.,

appropriation for rent, for use of Navy De-

partment ..

511, 1213

Millstones, duty on burrstones manufactured into..... 21

Milhville, N. J.,

appropriation for public building..

1376

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

686

Milton, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

674

Milwaukee Land Company,
sale of lands on Cheyenne River Indian Reservation, S. Dak., for townsite to. 602

Milwaukee, Sparta and Northwestern Railway Company,

granted right of way through military rifle

range, etc., Sparta, Wis...

298

Milwaukee. Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of inner

harbor....

656

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers'

Home .

733, 1409

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers'Home .

1301, 1321

construction of appraisers' stores authorized

at.

684

terms of court at .

1129

Minam -National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1250

INDEX.

cliii

Minden, La.,

Page.

acceptingsite bydonation for públic build-

ingat .

: 697

Mine Explosions

appropriation forinvestigating causes of: 742, 1418

Mines Bureau, Department of the Interior-- Page

Continued.

investigations to be conducted by.

.370

offices, appliances, employees, etc., to be

-provided for.

370

investigations of causes of,,transferred to

transfer from Geological Survey of investi

Bureau of Mines......

'370

gations ofstructural materials.

 370

Mine Inspectors, appropriation for salaries and expenses. 742, 1419 inspection of Alaska coal mines, etc... 742

repealed... fuel substances :
mine explosions...

743 ······· 870 '
- 370

Mineral Fuel Substances,

appropriationfortesting, etc....... .742, 1419

tests foroutside parties; charges, etc..

1419

Mineral Land Entries,

appropriations, experts, equipment, etc. 370

excluded from inspection ofmines, etc., in

States...

.970

to take effect July 1, 1910.

370.

patents not to be denied for, solely because

assigned before discovery ofoil, etc. 1015 Mineral Lands, Alaska,

time extended for filing adverse claims,

.etc....

......

459

Mineral Objects,

office building authorized for, and other bu-

reaus, etc., in Washington..

*,699

first edition of publications of limited.

883

additional copies authorized...

883

- transfer ofinvestigation ofstructural mate-

rials to, repealed..

743

duty on, immersed in alcohol, not specially

Mines, Naval Defense,

provided for....:

-12 appropriations for appliances, etc..

612

Mineral Resources ofthe United States,

Mines ofthe United States

appropriation for preparingreport on.. 743, 1418 for printingand bindingreport on. 769;1446
Mineral Salts,
onfreelist,evaporated ; certificaterequired 77 MineralSubstances,

census of, to be taken in 1910, etc. census schedules of inquiries...

1 4,227

to relate to year ending December 31,

preceding enumeration ..

228

limited to active:

4,228

duty on articles of, not specially provided

officials tocorrectly answercensus questions

for:.

18

punishment for failure..

Mineral Substances, Metallic,

information to be used only for statistics;

dutyoncrude not specially provided for.. Mineral Waters,
duty on. artificial or imitation..
Mineral Wax,
on free list ....

30

restriction on publication..

Mingo Creek, S. C.,

40 appropriation for improvement of.

.643, 938

40 Minidoka National Forest, Idaho and Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250 80 Minimum Tariff,

Mineral Wells, Tex.,

appropriation for securing information in

appropriation for public building.

1376

connection with application of.. 703, 1363

8888

Mineralogy Specimens of,

on

free list, for sale.

public

collections,

not

for

79

deficiency appropriation for securing infor-

mation, etc., telating to.....

1:19

applied to imports from countries not dis-

Minerals,

on free list, crude, not specially provided

for....

77

Miners' Diamonds,

onfreelist, notset .

75

Miners'Labor Lien, Alaska,

criminating, etc., against United '

> States; and products..

82'

paying no export bounty.

imposing no export tax or prohibition on

shipments to United States....

82

proclamation announcing, to be issued.. 82

persons entitled for wages due... notice to be filed.
jurisdiction in actions; procedure.. posting ofnotice .......
executing judgments; sales eto, ......

848 Mining Accidents, etc.,.

848 appropriation for investigating causes of,

849

etc..

742,1418

850 Mining Fuses,

850 duty on, not composed ofcotton.....

66

appeals; disposal of minerals, etc..... 851 Mining Laws,

punishment for taking away attached

property .

851

Miners' Rescue Appliances,

on free list..

77

lands temporarily withdrawn for power

sites, etc., open to exploration, etc.,

under..

847

coal, oil, gas, and phosphates excepted.. 847

Miners' Safety Lamps, on free list..

Ministers, Alien Religions, 77 contract labor exclusion not applicable to.. 264

Mines Bureau, Department ofthe Interior,

Ministers Plenipotentiary, Envoys Extraordi-

appropriation for general expenses, sala-

ries, etc.,...

742, 1418

for transferring laboratories, etc., from

Geological Survey to....

742

nary and, appropriation for... Ministers Resident and Consuls-General,
appropriation for.....

337, 1027 337, 1028

forinvestigatingmineexplosions, etc. 742, 1418 Mink, Alaska,

for rent, contingont expenses, etc.. 742,1418 punishment for unauthorized killing of... 327

for testing, etc., fuel substances . 742, 1419 Minneapolis, Minn.,

forreports on investigations, etc ..... 742, 1419 appropriation for public building.

705

for mine inspectors...

742, 1419 bridge authorized across Mississippi River

for technical books, etc.

1419

between Plymouth and Eighth Ave-

for rent..

1219

nues .

193

tests for outside parties, charges, etc..

1419

Third Avenue south to First Avenue

established..

369

southeast.

187

appointment of Director; qualifications... 369

experts, etc..

370

Twentieth Avenue south to Eleventh

Avenue southeast...

187

cliv

INDEX .

Minneapolis, Minn.-Continued.

Page.

limit of cost increased, public building... 696

may bridge Mississippi River...

179

release of strip of land to City from public

building site.

1376

terms of court at.

1116

Minneapolis, Red Lake and Manitoba Railway

Company, patent to issue for lands on Red Lake In-

dian Reservation, Minn., selected by. 861

Minneapolis, SaintPauland Sault Sainte Marie

Railroad Company,

deficiency appropriation for.

120

may bridge Mississippi River in Aitkin

County, Minn .

180

Bemidji, Minn.

262

Minnesota,

appropriation for completing field notes of

surveys in..

742, 1417

assigned to eighth judicial circuit.

1131

homestead entries ofceded lands, Red Lake

Indian Reservation ...

913

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended....

189, 904

leave of absence allowed .

189, 904

village site for Winnibigoshish band, Chip-

pewa Indians in..

863

Minnesota and Manitoba Railroad Company,

granted lands on Red Lake Indian Reserva-

tion for ballast pit ......

292

payment of drainage charges.

292

Minnesota, Dakota and Pacific Railway Com-

pany

time extended for bridging Missouri River

in South Dakota by..

179

Minnesota Judicial District,

additional judge allowed for..

1087

counties composing first division .

1115

second division .

1115

third division

1115

fourth division.

1115

fifth division..

1115

sixth division

1115

terms of court..

1116

Minnesota National Forest, Minn.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 427, 1250

Minnesota River Improvement and Power

Company,

may dam Minnesota River at outlet ofLake

Bigstone.

932

confluence with Redwood River...................... 932

Minnesota River, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 657, 947

dams authorized across, at Lake Bigstone and mouth of Redwood River...... 932

Minor Coins,

appropriation for recoinage of.

714, 1390

deficiency appropriation for transporting.. 777

Minority Employees, House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for..

477, 1179

Minot, N. Dak.,

terms of court at.

1121

Mints and Assay Offices (see also Director of

the Mint),

appropriation for Director, examiner,

etc ...

492; 1194

for salaries and expenses, mint at Carson,

Nev....

497, 1199

Denver, Colo...........

497, 1199

New Orleans..

497, 1200

Philadelphia, Pa...

498, 1200

San Francisco, Cal..

498, 1200

for salaries and expenses, assay office at

Boise, Idaho..

498, 1201

Charlotte, N. C.

498, 1201

Deadwood, S. Dak.

499, 1201

Mints and Assay Offices-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for salaries and expenses,

assay office at Helena, Mont.... 499, 1201

New York, N. Y. Saint Louis, Mo..................

..... 499, 1201 499

Seattle, Wash..

499, 1202

Salt Lake City, Utah.

499, 1202

deficiency appropriation for Carson,

Nev...

206, 1292

for New York.

1292

for Deadwood, S. Dak..

1292

indefinite appropriation for parting and

refining bullion repealed .

1292

estimates required; balances to be cov-

ered in .

1292

troy pound of Bureau of Standards to regu-

late coinage..

1354

standard weights conforming to, required at all; annual inspection, etc................... 1354

Mirrors,

duty on, glass..

21

Misbranded Foods, Drugs, etc.,

appropriation for expenses preventing sale,

etc., of...

432, 1255

Misbranded Insecticides, etc.,

prevention of manufacture, shipping, etc. ,

of..

331

Misdemeanors (see Crimes and Misdemeanors).

Mishawaka, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.

1376

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

685

Miso,

duty on.

36

Mispillion River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 638, 937

preliminary examination of, to be made... 953

Missions, Foreign (see Diplomatic and Con-

sular Service).

Mississippi, assigned to fifth judicial circuit. bridge authorized across Pearl River in..

1131 179

Mississippi, Hill . City and Western Railway Company
bridge across Mississippi River at Hill
City, Minn., by, legalized.. Mississippi Northern Judicial District,
judge for, to serve in southern district.... counties composing eastern division........
western division...
terms of court...
at Clarksdale....

193
1087 1116 1116 1116 932

Mississippi River,

appropriation for bridge, Fort Snelling,

Minn....

730

for South Pass Channel..

647

forimprovement of Southwest Pass.... 647, 942

for improvement of, from Head of Passes

tothe Ohio......

658, 730, 948

construction ofdredge boats, etc.... 6,58,948

allotments for connecting water

courses.....

658,948

report on permanently diverting Red

and Atchafalaya rivers...

658

construction of experimental tow-

boats, barges, etc..

659

for improvement of, from the Ohio to the

Missouri..

659, 729,948

tosecure depth of 8 feet to Saint Louis. 659

to secure 6 feet to the Missouri.

659

for improvement of, from the Missouri to

Minneapolis...

659, 729, 948

to secure depth of 6 feet-.

659

repairs, etc., ofexisting levees...

656

maintenance of levees; dredging at

harbors, etc.......

948

INDEX.

clv

Mississippi River-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for improvement of; changes

*in harbor lines at Saint Paul, Minn.,

permitted; conditions...

948

for improvement of, from Saint Paul to

· Minneapolis; water-power leases.. 659,949 for improvement of reservoirs at head-

waters...

659

for improvement of, from Brainerd to

Grand Rapids....

659

for reservoirs at headwaters, canal, Lake

Winnibigoshish to Leech Lake ..

949

for waterway from Lockport, Ill ., by Desplaines and Illinois Rivers, to.. 659

board authorized to cooperate with

State agents; expenses, etc..

659

for improvement of, between SaintPaul

and Minneapolis, Lock and Dams

Nos. 1 and 2...

729

for lighting...

754.

bridge across, Hill City, Minn., legal-

ized..

193

bridge authorized across, in Aitkin County,

Minn...

180

Bass Brook, Minn..

190

Bemidji, Minn..

261

Blackberry, Minn

910

Minneapolis, Minn

179

Plymouth and Eighth Avenues ..

193

Third and First Avenues..

187

Twentieth and Eleventh Avenues... 187

Moline, Ill., to Bettendorf, Iowa...

.464

Nininger, Minn..

958

Saint Paul, Minn.

907

cable authorized across, Morgans Point,

Ark., to Richardson, Tenn...

586

dam authorized across, Coon Creek Rapids,

Minn...

893

lighthouse districts including, may be under Army engineer inspector.... 539

preliminary examination of, to be made,

Aitkin County, Minn....

672

between Calhoun Point and Mason Is-

land, Ill...

955

Saint Louis, Mo..

670

Saint Paul, Minn.

672

Thomas Landing, Ill..

670

Winnibigoshish and Pokegama reser-

voirs.....

672

Leech Lake dam to Leech River.

672

telephone cable authorized across, between Cairo, Ill. , and Bird Point, Mo. 336

time extended for bridging, Saint Louis,

Mo....

185

by Saint Louis Electric Bridge Com-

pany..

196

time extended for dam, etc., across, Mor-

· rison County, Minn....

1359

at Sauk Rapids, Minn..

902, 931

Mississippi River Commission,

appropriation for expenses, etc..... 658,730,948

Mississippi River, South Branch,

bridge authorized across, Watertown to

Campbells Island, Ill...

964

Mississippi Sound,

construction of wharves, etc., in, author-

ized ......

869

Mississippi Southern Judicial District,

judge for northern district to serve in.

1087

counties composing Jackson division.. 1116

western division....

1116

eastern division.....

1116

southern division.....

1116

terms of court..

1116

Missoula, Mont.,

Page.

appropriation forpublic building..

705, 1377

limit ofcost increased, public building..

678

terms of court at.....

1118

Missoula National Forest, Mont. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250 Missouri,

assigned to eighth judicial circuit....................... 1131 consent of Congress to agreement as to

boundary in and jurisdiction over

Missouri River between Kansas

and...

881

title of United States tolands, NewMadrid,

location, released ..

923

Missouri Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing eastern division...

1117

northern division..

1117

southeastern division.....

1117

terms of court at.....

1117

terms ofcourt, etc., at Rolla.....

585

Maries County transferred from western

district to eastern division of..

897

Oregon County transferred to western dis-

trict from...

370

Missouri River,

appropriation for improvement of, from

Kansas City to the mouth....

660

board to report on plan for 6-foot chan-

nel.:

660

for improvement of, Kansas City to Fort

Benton...

661

at Saint Joseph, Mo.; contribution by

City

661

at Atchison, Kans., cooperation of

City..

661

for lighting..

754

bridge authorized across, Arrow Rock,

Mo...

601

Atchison, Kans..

( 15

Chamberlain, S. Dak..

Saint Charles, Mo...

600

Sibley, Mo...

239

consent of Congress as to boundary in, and

jurisdiction over, between Kansas

and Missouri..

81

contracts authorized for improvement of,

from Kansas City to mouth by 6-

foot channel.........

949

preliminary examination of, near Omaha,

to bemade...

673

Omaha and the Platte, cable and sand

protection plan.....

673

time extended for bridging, at Council

Bluffs .....

853

Kansas City, Mo....

178

Kansas City and Sibley, Mo ..........

198

in South Dakota....

179

Yankton, S. Dak..

186,,267, 1082, 1351

Missouri Western Judicial District,

counties composing western division... 1117

southwestern division...

1117

Saint Joseph division

1117

central division.

1117

southern division .

1117

terms of court...

1117

terms of court, etc., Chillicothe..

587

Maries County transferred to eastern district

from.....

897

Oregon County transferred from eastern district to southern division of...... 370

Moapa Indian Reservation, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

on..

278

Moapa National Forest, Nev., appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250

clvi

INDEX .

Mobile, Ala.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of bar... 646, 942

for improvement of harbor..

646, 942

for marine hospital, stairways..

710

bridge authorized across Mobile River at.. 958

construction of public building authorized

at; cost...

696

contracts authorized.

696

loan of tents, etc., for Confederate Veter-

ans' Reunion at..

876

terms of court at..

1106

Mobile, Ala., Customs District,

Birmingham constituted subport of entry.. 1086 Mobile Artillery, Army,
appropriation for altering, etc......... 597, 1342 Mobile Bay, Ala.,

structures, etc., allowed in, by Dauphin

Island Railway and Harbor Com-

pany..

868

Mobile River, bridge authorized across, Mobile, Ala..... 958

Model Exhibit, Patent Office,

deficiency appropriation for rent, etc., new

quarters for..

123

Models ofInventions, etc.,

on free list; restrictions..

77

Models ofStatuary, etc.,

on free list.

79

Modoc National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 428, 1250 Moieties, Customs,

appropriation for compensation in lieu

of....

716, 1393

deficiency appropriation for compensation

in lieu of..

889

Mokelumne River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 662, 950 preliminary examination of, to be made... 956

Molasses,

duty on...

34

Molds,

on free list, gold beaters' .

76

Molel Indians, Oreg., appropriation for fulfilling treaty with.......... 283

Moline-BettendorfBridge Company,

may bridge Mississippi River...

464

Moline, East Moline and Watertown Railway

Company, may bridge South Branch of Mississippi

River, Watertown to Campbells

Island, Ill.....

964

Moline, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

705

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

to Bettendorf, Iowa, from...

464

Molybdenum,

duty on..

30

Monazite Sand,

duty on...

30

Monetary Commission, National,

publications of, to be printed as public

documents....

217

Money, Honorable Hernando D.,

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission.....

898

Money in Registry of United States Courts, withdrawal only on order of the court... 1083

unclaimed after five years to be deposited

in the Treasury...

1083

payment to parties entitled on order of

the court..

1084

permanent appropriation for; applica-

ble to prior deposits.

1084

Money-Order Service, Postal Service,

appropriation for supplies.....

365, 1338

requirement for issuing office to mail notice

to paying office repealed....

415

Money-Order Division, Post-Office Depart Pago. ment,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc..

521, 1223

Monhegan Island, Me.,

appropriation for light station.

1430

submarine signal buoy, etc., authorized at. 535 Mono National Forest, Nev. and Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250

Monongahela, Pa.,

appropriation for public building..

1377

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

687

Monongahela Railroad Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, New

Geneva, Pa...

188

Monongahela River,

appropriation for improvement of, Lock

and Dam No. 2..

638

for lighting..

754

bridge authorized across, McKeesport to

Mifflin, Pa....

822

Morgantown, W. Va.

195

New Geneva, Pa....

188

Wilson to Glassport, Ba..

195

right ofwaygranted across lands oflocks on 930

time extended for bridging, at Browns-

ville, Pa.....

870, 909

Pittsburg, Pa...

269, 908

Monopolies ( ee also Antitrust Cases),

jurisdiction of district courts under laws

against..

1093

Monroe Island, Me.,

appropriation for purchase land, for range

marks, naval trial course,.

617

Monroe, La.,

terms of court at..

1114

Monroe, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 655

Monroe, N. C.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

Monroe, Wis.,

appropriation for public building.

1377

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

693

Montana,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc.

517, 1220

for surveying public lands in certain

counties...

741

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex- penses, Indian Service in... 222,

226, 811, 1327

for surveying certain counties in....

1307

assigned to ninth judicial circuit.

1131

creation or enlargement of national forests

in, forbidden, except by act of Con-

gress...

848

Glacier National Park established in.............. 354

Havre land district, established..

192

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended...

189, 903

leave of absence allowed ......! ..

189, 904

lands ceded by Indians on Gros Ventre,

etc., reservations, opened to entry

under general laws..

1080

prior entries in good faith validated ..... 1081

Montana Judicial District,

terms of court ..

1118

Montana National Bison Range,

appropriation for maintenance, etc.... 434, 1258

deficiency appropriation for fencing, on Blackfeet Indian Reservation ...... 215

Montenegro, Greece and,
appropriation for minister to........ for secretary of legation...

337, 1027 338, 1028

INDEX.

clvii

Monterey National Forest, Cal.,.

Page. Morgantown, W. Va.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250 appropriation for public building..

Page. 1377

Montevideo, Minn.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

appropriation for public building ..... 690, 1377 ,

ing, site...

207

Montezuma National Forest, Colo.,

bridge authorized across Monongahela

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

River at.

195

Montgomery, Ala., term of circuit court of appeals at..

limit of cost increased, public building. 679 · 1133 Mormon Channel, Cal.,

all appellate proceedings in Alabama to

appropriation for improvement of..... 663, 950

be heard at... terms of district court at.

1133 Morning and Evening Gun, 1106 appropriation forammunition for firing. 260, 1056

Montpelier, Vt., terms of court at..

Morocco, 1127 appropriation for minister to...

337, 1027

Montreal, Canada,

for secretary of legation..

337, 1028

appropriation for lease of office, Immigra

for Cape Spartel and Tangier light... 340, 1030 ,

tion Service..

764 Morocco,

8.

Montrose, Colo., ·

granted land for public park.

460

terms of court at....

1108

Montrose Park, D. C.,

appropriation for acquiring land for................... .1005

limit of expense; reimbursement of

one-half...

1005

maintenance..

1006

'condemnation proceedings it purchase .

price not satisfactory..

1006

control, etc....

1006

acquiring land for, authorized; location on

Georgetown Heights..

701

cost; appropriation authorized ; reim-

bursement ofone-half.

701

maintenance...

701

condemnation proceedings if purchase

price not satisfactory....

701

control, etc........

701

Monuments,

appropriation for General Shields, Carroll-

ton, Mo.....

723

for Grant memorial..

728

forunveiling, etc., Von Steuben statue.. 728

for Guilford Courthouse, N. Ç. , battle ... 1402

deficiency appropriation for completing, etc., statue of Count Pulaski, Wash-

ington, D. C....

209

for completing, etc., statue of Gen.

Kosciuszko, Washington, D. C.,

209

authorized to Abraham Lincolm, in Wash-

ington, D. C.....

898

at Fort Recovery, Ohio......

311

appropriation for...

311

at Guilford Courthouse battlefield, N. C. 899

over grave of President Tyler, in Hollywood Cemetery, Richmond, Va. 1345

duty on skins for, tanned but unfinished.. Morphia or Morphine, Sulphate of,
duty on.. Morrell, Ark., :.time extended for bridging Bayou Bartholo-
mew at.....
Morris and Cummings Channel, Tex., bridge authorized across... at Aransas Pass, Tex.. time extended for bridging, Aransas Pass, Tex......

68 "
14
187
588 324 1359

Morris, Charles M.,

·

deficiency appropriation for preparing com-

1

pilation tariff acts of Congress.... .803

Morrison County, Minn., ·

time extended for dam across Mississippi

River in.....

- 1359

Morristown, N. J.,

construction of public building authorized

at....

682

Morristown, Tenn.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

683

Mosaic Cubes,

duty on marble or onyx.

21

Moscow, Idaho,

appropriation for public building... 705, 1377

terms of court at...

928, 1109

Moss,

duty on peat..

70

on free list, crude or unmanufactured, not

otherwise provided for......

77

Moss and Sea Grass,

duty on, manufactured or dyed....

17

Mosses,

duty on, drugs............

13

duty on marble, etc...

21 on free list, crude, not edible, not specially

expenditure authorized for, commemo-

provided for..

75

rating first German settlement in

Mother ofPearl,

America......

1352 duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

joint, in memory of Gens. James Screven .

vided for....

70

and Daniel Stewart at Midway, Ga. 1352 on free list, in natural state, not cut,

appropriation for construction, etc... 1352

etc....

78

Monuments, etc., D. C., location, etc., of, in streets, parks, etc., to

Mother Tongue ofForeign-Born Persons, etc.,

· census inquiries to include..

877

be submitted to Commission of Fine

Moths, Gypsy and Brown Tail,

1 Arts...

....... 371 appropriation for quarantining against

Monuments, Public,

spread of....

433, 1257

on free list, works of art, etc., for.................... 81 Motor Boats, etc.,

Moorhead, Minn.,

deficiency appropriation for expenses of,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

boarding vessels in customs, naviga-

tion, etc., service........

781

Moquette Carpets, " duty on.

lights required on..

462

55 whistles and fog signals..

463

Morehead City, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 642

cooperation of local interests....

642

life preservers, etc...

463 .

licenses required to operate, carrying pas-

sengers for hire...

463

Morgans Point, Ark., cable authorized across Mississippi River

means to extinguish gasoline...

463

penalty for violations; collection, etc...

463

from Richardson, Tenn., to..

586 in effect in 30 days...

463

clviii

INDEX .

888888

Motor Vehicles, Army,

Page.

suspensions for temporary hire, etc., of, by

officers, 1909, 1910, and 1911, re-

moved...

1051

Motor Vehicles, D. C.,

appropriation for tags, etc..

975

license tax on..

379

Motorcycles,

duty on, and parts........................

25

Mott, M. L.,

payment to, from funds of Creek Nation for

services as attorney...........

282

Mottville, Mich.,

dam authorized across Saint Joseph River

near...

904

Moundsville, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building

1377

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

688

Mount Carmel, Ill. ,

bridge authorized across Wabash River at. 300

former act repealed ....

301

Mount Desert, Me.,

appropriation for breakwater to Porcupine

Island from; contracts....

630, 933

preliminary examination of Northeast Har-

bor, to be made..

671

Mount Pleasant, Mich.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 275, 1064

Mount Rainier National Park,

appropriation for wagon road into..
for protection, etc.... Mount Sinai, N. Y.,

725 745, 1421

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made...

674

Mount Vernon, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1377

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

685

Mount Vernon, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.

1377

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized

689

Mount Vernon, N. Y.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized ..

682

Mount Vernon, Va., no moneys for reformatory, etc., District
of Columbia, to be used for new buildings within ten miles of....... 1002 Mountain Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc ..

597, 1341

for ammunition for.

. 597, 1341

for ammunition, etc., for practice.... 597, 1342 Mounted Service School, Army,

appropriation for instruction expenses. 244, 1037

leaves of absence to instructors .

244

Moving Pictures,

duty on negative films for....

70

positive films for....

70

Mowers,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty..

71

Mozart Place NW., D. C.,

name of Messmore Place changed to ...... 1347

Muck Bars, Iron,

duty on.

22

Mufflers,

duty on, cotton

46

silk ..

59

Mugs,

duty on, china, etc., decorated, etc..

18

china, etc., not decorated..

18

Mule Shoes,

duty on, wrought iron or steel....

28

* 222 2288 E 20

Mules,

Page.

duty on..

35

Mundy, George P.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1315

Mungo, Woolen,

duty on.

53

Municipal Architect's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries; duties, etc.... 378, 971

for motor truck...

971

Municipal Building, D. C. (see District

Building, D. C.).

Municipal Corporations, excepted from voluntary bankruptcy... 839

involuntary bankruptcy....

839

on free list, works of art, etc., for perma-

nent exhibition by...

for presentation to....

Municipal Court, D. C., appropriation for salaries... for rent; contingent expenses.

404,995 404, 995

Municipal Lodging House, D. C., appropriation for expenses..

410, 1001

Municipal Regulations, D. C., issue by commissioners authorized ........... 1299

sales; proceeds..

1299.

Munjeet,

on free list.

77

Murder,

punishment for mailing, etc., matter in-

citing..·

1339

Murderkill River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 638, 937

preliminary examination of, to be made... 953

Murfreesboro, Tenn.,

appropriation for public building.

1377

limit of cost increased, public building.. 679

Muriatic Acid,

on free list.

71

Murphy, Arthur P.,

payment to, from funds of Creek Nation,

for services as attorney...

282

Murphysboro, IU.,

appropriation for public building..

1377

limit of cost increased, public building.. 677

Mushroom Spawn,

duty on.

37

· Mushrooms ,

duty on, prepared, etc....................

36

Music,

duty on, in books or sheets, not specially

provided for....

64

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc.; limit.....

74

in raised characters for the blind...

74

printed more than twenty years.

73

Musical Instruments,

duty on, or parts thereof..

70

cases for....

70

metal strings for..

70

strings for...

70

Musk,

on free list, crude....

77

Muskegon, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor......

655, 946

Muskets,

duty on.

27

Muskingum River, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for repair of

levee, Dam No. 10,

789-

Muskogee Nation (see Creek Indians).

Muskogee, Okla.,

appropriation for public building .

1377

Federal jail transferred to; conditions.... : 702

limit of cost increased, public building... 697

terms of court at.

1122

INDEX .

clix

Mussels, Propagation ofFresh-Water,

Page.

appropriation for launch for salmon fish-

eries, transferred to biological station

for.....

763

Mustard,

duty on.

39

Mustard Seed,

on free list.

79

Muth, George F., and Company,

deficiency appropriation for.

1302

Mullon, ·

duty on fresh....

38

Mutual Building and Loan Associations,

exempt from corporation tax...

113

Myrobolan Plum,

duty on stocks, etc., of.....

37

Myrobolans,

on free list.

77

Myrtle Wood,

on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrel-

las, canes, etc...

81

Mystic River, Conn., preliminary examination to be made of.. 953

Mystic River, Mass., appropriation for improvement of................. 632, 934

Myton, Utah,

deficiency appropriation for bridge across

Duchesne River at..

124

N.

Nahant and Lynn Street Railway Company,

sale of strip of land, coast defense reserva-

tion, Nahant, Mass., authorized to... 1348

Nahant, Mass.,

sale of strip of land, Army coast defense

reservation, authorized......

1348

Nail Rods,

duty on, iron or steel ....

24

Nails,

duty on, cut iron or steel.

hob.....

horseshoe.

steel, not specially provided for. wire, wrought iron or steel.. wrought iron, not specially provided for. Names in Trade-Marks,

permissible use of personal, ifotherwise reg-

istrable.....

919

Nansemond River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 640,938

"Nanshan," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs

1280

Nanticoke River, Del. and Md.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 937

Nanticoke River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of, and

Northwest Fork....

639

Nantucket, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

632, 934

"Naomi," Steamer,

name may be changed to "E. G. Crosby".. 326

Napa River, Cal., appropriation for improvement of................. 662, 950

Naphtha,

on free list......

78

Naphthalin,

on free list..

74

Naphthol,

on free list..

74

Naphtolsulfoacids ,

on free list, and their sodium or potassium

salts...

74

Naphtylamin,

on free list..

74

***8*2

Naphtylaminsulfoacids,

Page.

on free list, and their sodium or potassium

salts....

74

Napkins,
duty on lace, cotton, flax, etc............. Narcissus Bulbs,.
duty on..

50 36 ·

Narrangansett Pier, R. I.,

appropriation for public building..

1377

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..........

688

Nashville, Tenn.,

terms of court at..

1125

National Banks (see National Currency).

National Bureau of Criminal Identification,

appropriation for aid to, use for General

Government, under police, D. C. 399,990 National Cemeteries,

appropriation for maintenance..... 722, 1399

for superintendents.....

722, 1399

for headstones for soldiers' graves.. 722, 1399

for monument to General Shields.

723

for road, etc., Mound City, Ill..

723

acceptance of conveyance of land,Chal-

mette, La....

723

forrepairing roadways to; restrictions. 723, 1399

expenditures on one approach only. 723, 1400

for burial of indigent soldiers, D. C.. 723, 1400

for Antietam battlefield, Md ..

723, 1400

for bringing home remains of officers, sol-

diers, etc., dying abroad.

723, 1400

for Confederate Mound, Chicago, Ill . 724, 1400

forburial ofindigent patients, Hot Springs

Hospital, Ark....

724, 1400

for road from Harrisonville, N. J., to

Finns Point...

350

deficiency appropriation for Shiloh, Tenn. ,

repairing cyclone damages..

210

for burial of indigent soldiers...

220

for headstones for soldiers' graves..

220,

225,809, 1326

for Salisbury, N. C. , roadway....

788

for expenses..

1321

CaveHill, Ky.,exchangeoflandsauthorized 236

gift of land for Andersonville, Ga., accepted 230

officers and men of Revenue- Cutter Service

may be buried in..

1389

right of way granted over road to Vicks-

burg, Miss..

926

sale ofportion of Fort Smith, Ark., to city of

Fort Smith.

917

transfer authorized of Confederate ceme-

tery, Springfield, Mo., to care of..... 1077 National Currency,

appropriation for superintendent redemp-

tion of....

490, 1192

for repairs to cutting machine, etc... 490, 1192

for superintendent, clerks, etc.....
for special examinations.... for distinctive paper, etc....

490, 1192 491, 1192 714, 1391

deficiency appropriation for storing emer-

gency notes...

119

for distinctive paper...

204

for employees on emergency currency.. 775 Panama Canal bonds not receivable as se-

curity for issue of.......

1013

payments to persons employed on emer-

gency currency, legalized ......

204

National Defense Secrets,

punishment for obtaining, receiving, com-

municating, and disclosing unlaw-

fully information respecting....... 1084

communicating unlawful information to

foreign governments....

1085

jurisdiction for offenses on high seas................ 1085

in the Philippines...........

1085

clx

INDEX .

National Forest Reservation Commission,

Page.

created; constitution of....

962

to act upon the purchase of lands, etc.

962

purchases to be made only on approval of.. 962

to serve during official term...

962

annual reports, etc.....

962

recommendation of lands to be purchased.. * 962

examination by Geological Survey......  962

lands approved by, may be purchased.. 962

consent of State legislature.....

962

title to vest in United States...

962

timber and minerals to be reserved.

.962

regulations for removing...

962

sales of agricultural tracts not needed for

public purposes....

962

limit; State jurisdiction resumed..

963

rights, etc., subject to this Act ....

963

to be permanently reserved as national

forest lands.

963

jurisdiction of State over persons in,

not affected...

963

five per cent of receipts to be paid to

States....

963

use for county schools and roads..

963

..distribution; maximum...........

963

appropriation for expenses; immediately

available.....

963

National Forests (see also Forest Service),

appropriation for administration of..... 424, 1246

sale of timber; restriction, Black

Hills ....

424, 1246

for constructing permanent improve-

ments .

431, 1247

for expenses restoring to public domain

lands in...

740, 1415

for topographical surveys in...

743, 1418

deficiency appropriation for surveying.

222

for restoring lands in..

811

for protection of....

812

for administration.....

1324

allotments to Indians living in.

862

creation or enlargement of, in certain States

forbidden, except by act of Congress 848

desert land selections by Oregon exchanged

for lands in ..

1357

exchanges authorized with private owners

to consolidate Kansas .

960

grant of lands for Lowell Observatory in

Coconino, Ariz....

452

lands acquired under conservation act, per-

manently reserved as...

963

lands added to Pocatello, Idaho................

919

receipts from, in school sections granted. to

Arizona ..

573

to New Mexico ...

562

reinstatement of homestead entries, can- .

celed, etc., solely because of with-

drawal of lands for...

1084

rights ofsuccessful contestants...

1084

rights ofway for electric lines may begrant-

ed through; period .

1253

National Guard (see Militia, Organized).

National Guard, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses, pay of troops,

etc ..

411, 1004

NationalHomefor Disabled Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for expenses, Dayton,

Ohio.....

732, 1408

Milwaukee, Wis.

733, 1409

Togus, Me.

733, 1409

Hampton, Va..

733, 1410

Leavenworth, Kans..

734, 1410

Santa Monica, Cal..

734, 1410

Marion, Ind...

734, 1411

Danville, Ill..

......... 735, 1411

Johnson City, Tenn...

735, 1411

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Sol- Page. diers-Continued.

. appropriation for expenses, Battle Moun-

tain Sanitarium, S. Dak......... 735, 1412

for clothing, all branches....

735, 1412

for salaries and expenses, board of man-

agers.

735, 1412

disposal of property of decedents leay-

ing no heirs, will, etc..

736

conditions of membership....

736

for aid to State or Territorialhomes.. 736, 1413

deficiency appropriation for Hampton, Va. 211

for Santa Monica, Cal...

211, 220, 1301

for Leavenworth, Kans..

211, 220, 1301

for Danville, Ill...

211, 1301, 1321

forJohnson City, Tenn..

211, 1301

for Milwaukee, Wis..........

1301, 1321

for Marion, Ind..

1301

for State or Territorial homes...

211

for Dayton, Ohio.....

220

for clothing..

220

appointment on Board of Managers of James W. Wadsworth, Henry E.

Palmer, John M. Holley, Henry H. Markham, and OscarM. Gottschall.. 876 .

of Z. D. Massey and Lucian S. Lambert.. 1459 National McKinley Birthplace Memorial

Association; D. C.,

incorporators, object, management, etc.... 1861

powers of trustees, exemption from taxa-

tion, etc...

1361

National Monetary Commission,

publications of, to be printed as public

documents...

217

National Museum,

appropriation for salaries, fixtures, etc.. 718, 1396

for heating, lighting, etc.........

718, 1396

for preserving, etc., collections. .... 718, 1396

for books, repairs, etc.... for printing and binding for,...

719, 1396 768, 1447

deficiency appropriation for completing

new building..

121

forroads, walks, etc......

782

for ice plant....

782

for preserving collections.....

811

National Parks,

appropriation for Chickamauga and Chat-

tanooga..... for Shiloh..

..... 724, 1401 724, 1401

for Gettysburg.

725, 1401

for Vicksburg.

725, 1401

for memorialto Union Navy.

725

for Yellowstone.. for Mount.Rainier.

725,745, 1402, 1421 725, 745, 1421

for Crater Lake......

725, 745, 1421

for Yosemite ..

745, 1420

for Sequoia .

745, 1421

for General Grant...

: 745, 1421

for Mesa Verde..................

745, 1421

for Wind Cave....

745, 1421

for Platt..

745, 1420

examination of San Francisco water

supply in Yosemite Park..

1420

for Glacier....

745, 1421

annual statement required of receipts

and expenditures of the prior year

of.

1421

deficiency appropriation for Shiloh, Tenn:,

repairing cyclone damages.

210, 788

for Sequoia...

222

commissioners for Chickamauga and Chat-

tanooga; office at Chattanooga..

293

established, Glacier, Mont...

354

National Railways ofMexico,

may bridge Rio Grande between Laredo, Tex., and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico... 188

INDEX .

clxi

National Training Schoolfor Boys, D. C., Page.

appropriation for maintenance of in-

mates...

407, 998

for family building..

747

for shop building..

747

equipment authorized..

800

for buildings; central school building.. 1423

for maintenance of inmates....

753, 1429

deficiency appropriation for water main to. 122

for support of inmates..

125, 786, 1298

for support of.......

800

equipment of shop authorized .............

800

National Waterways Commission,

payment to Government employees serving

with, allowed ...

130

of expenses of persons detailed to assist

inspections, etc....

130

continued until November 4, 1911 ..

956

final report required by November 4, 1911. 956

report, etc., on proposed artificial water-

ways ..

956

plans forimpounding river flood waters.. 956

canal from the Ohio, near Pittsburg, to Lake Erie, by local interests .... 956

canal from Lake Erie to southerly end

of Lake Michigan.....

956

canal to connect Anacostia River,

D. O., with Chesapeake Bay....

956

data to be furnished by Engineer Corps;

expenses.....

957

National Zoological Park (see Zoological Park,

D. C., National).

Nationality ofForeign-Born Persons, etc.,

census inquiries to include......

877

Naturalization Division, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc..... 527, 1230

for special examiners, expenses, etc.. `764, 1442

Naturalization ofAliens,

appropriation for special examiners, ex-

penses, etc...

764, 1442

for additional clerical assistance to clerks

of courts in cases of...

765, 1442

deficiency appropriation for clerical assistance to clerks of courts in cases of. 126, 1313
allowance to clerks of courts for additional

clerical services in...

830

limit; continuation at beginning offiscal

year...

830

payment for services September 27, 1906,

to June 30, 1907 ...

830

appropriation for; regulations, etc..

830

certificates of citizenship may be issued in

certain cases without proof of declar-

tion of intention.....

831

completion allowed widow, etc. , of insane
alien, on making homestead entry without declaration of intention.... 929

status of records, etc., of Hawaiian courts

prior to June 29, 1906..

448

Natural History, Specimens,

on free list, for public collections, not for

sale....

79

Naugatuck, Conn.,

appropriation for public building.....

1377

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

689

Nautical Almanac and American Ephemeris,

appropriation for preparing....

509, 1211

Nautical Almanac Office, Navy Department,

appropriation for assistants, etc...

509, 1211

for preparing Nautical Almanac...... 509, 1211 Nautical Schools,

loan of ships and detail of naval officers for,

authorized ..............

1353

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-104

Navajo Indian Reservation, Ariz.,

Page.

appropriation for bridge across Little Colo-

rado River....

1062

investigation, etc., of necessity for bridge

at Tanners Crossing.....

273

Naval Academy,'

appropriation for pay of professors, etc.. 622; 1281

for watchmen..

623, 1282

for department of ordnance and gun-

nery....

623, 1282

for departments of electrical engineering

and physics.....

623, 1282

for department of seamanship........ 623, 1282
for department of marine engineering and naval construction ...... 623, 1282

for commissary department............... . 623, 1282

for current and miscellaneous ex-

penses....

..... 623, 1282

for books for the library..

1283

for expenses, Board of Visitors, etc... 624, 1283

for general maintenance..

624, 1283

for rent...

624, 1283

for repairs, etc............

624, 1283

for memorials, etc.....

1283

for crypt of chapel, resting place for

body ofJohn Paul Jones...

1283

for buildings and grounds, pier..

617

for transfer, etc. , ofpower plant..

617

for bridge, Dorsey Creek..

1276

for engineering experiment station... 622, 1281

unexpended balance for equipment

reappropriated.....

622

dredging basin and coal dock..

622

deficiency appropriation for heating and

lighting....

212,1303

for repairs....

791

for rent of buildings for bandsmen, etc.. 1304

for Bancroft Hall.

1304

for powerplant.

1304

for pay..

1326

band reorganized; pay..

297

enlistment; credit for priorservice, etc... 297 Navatlo bAeuxpialiiadrfiresom Navy pay appropriation.. 297 ,

appropriation formaintenance...

609, 1269

deficiency appropriation for mainte

nance...

221, 1322

Naval Equipment,

maximum number of pupils required at

military schools receiving, reduced. 613 Naval Establishment,

construction authorized of two first-class

battleships; cost....

628

two fleet colliers; cost..

628

contracts tohave eight-hour labor..... 628

provisions of act of 1884...

628

deposit accepted in lieu of indem-

nity bond.

628

domestic manufacture, etc......

628

only oneship to a contractor.

628

one to be built at a navy yard.

628

four submarine torpedo boats..

628

appropriation for....

six torpedo-boat destroyers.

628

appropriation for....

628

vessels may be built at navy yards if build-

ers combine on bidding..

628

appropriation for construction and machin-

ery; limit for colliers..

629

for submarine torpedo boats.

629

for torpedo boats with vitals below water

line; conditions.....

629

construction ofsmall boatsauthorized . 629

for two fleet colliers; reappropriation for

collier on Pacific coast...

629

for armor and armament; contracts.

629

clxii

INDEX .

Naval Establishment- Continued.
appropriation for equipment... construction authorized of two first-class
battleships; cost .... two fleetcolliers; cost. eight torpedo-boat destroyers; cost.. ..: four submarine torpedo boats; cost..
appropriation for; eight-hour workday restriction.
one submarine tender; cost. appropriation for..
onegunboat; cost..
one river gunboat; cost two seagoing tugs; cost.. appropriation for construction and steam
machinery. eight-hour workday restriction on con-
tracts for battleships... prior contracts excluded . limit of cost increased of collier to be

Page. 629
1287 1287 1287 1287
1287 1287 1287 1287 1287 1287
1288
1288 1288

built in Pacific coast yard..

1288

for submarine torpedo boats and subsur

face destroyers....

1288

eight-hour workday restriction on con-

tracts......

1288

vessels previously ordered not af-

fected.

1288

for armor and armament.

1288

contracts to lowest responsible bidder. 1288

purchases from trust combinations,

etc., forbidden....

1288

limit of cost increased for battleships

to be builtat navy-yards....

1288

Naval Gun Factory, Washington, D. C.,

appropriationfor machinery, etc........ 611, 1271

Naval Home, Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation formaintenance..

610, 1270

secretary and foreman mechanic au-

thorized....

1270

for paying beneficiaries for extra services. 610 employment ofbeneficiaries....... 611, 1270
Naval Intelligence Office, appropriation for clerks, etc......................... . .506, 1209
Naval Militia,

appropriationfor arming and equipping. 612, 1272
employees, etc., in Navy Department. 1272 Naval Militia, D. C.,

appropriation for storehouse for........... 717

Naval Observatory, D. C.,

appropriation for assistants, etc...

508, 1211

forcomputations, books, apparatus, etc 509, 1211

for contingentexpenses.....

509, 1211-

for maintenance ofgrounds, etc ..... 618, 1277

Naval Records,

private laws for correcting, not to preclude

granting of pensions subsequent to

their enactment ..

1458

Naval Records ofthe Rebellion,

appropriation for clerks, etc., office of.. 506, 1208

for continuing publication...

506, 1209

Naval Stations (see also Navy-Yards),

detail of line under staff officers permitted

in manufacturing and repair depart-

ments at.

614

Naval Supply Account,

established in Bureau of Supplies and Ac-

counts...

792

stores onhand to be charged to..

792

stock and material purchases or expendi-

tures to be charged to....

792

payment for, to be made from general

account of advances........

792

advancesto be charged to proper fund..

792

returned to advances account by warrant 792

purchases from specific appropriations of

designated objects; limit.....

192

Naval Supply Account-Continued. credit to be made of material taken, or
storesturned in, from ships.. to be deducted from operating experses
of fund....

Page. 792 792

to govern purchase, issue, etc., ofall naval

stores...

1279

Naval Torpedo Station, R. I., appropriation for..

612, 1271

Naval Training Stations,

appropriation for California..

609, 1269

for Rhode Island..

609, 1269

for Great Lakes..

609, 1269

for Rhode Island, repairs, etc... for California, buildings, etc. deficiency appropriation for Rhode Island. for California.

1276 1276 791 1304

Naval Trial Course, Me.,.

appropriation for purchase of land, Monroe

Island, for range marks.

617

Naval War College, Coasters Harbor Island,

R. I.,

appropriation for maintenance................ . 609, 1269 Navigable Streams,
investigation of watersheds directed in connection with plans for improving. 669

Navigable Streams, Watersheds of, cooperation with States for preservation of. 961

Navigable Waters, regulations for construction of dams across. 593
Navigation,

motor-boatregulations to prevent collisions,

etc...

462

Navigation Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputy,

clerks, etc....

526, 1229

for salaries and expenses, shipping' serv-

ice at large....

1229

for motor boats to enforce navigation 

laws, etc......

1230

forwireless communication expenses.... 1230

Navigation, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc... 526, 1229-

authorized to change names of steamers

"A. B. Wolvin " and "Cambria".

234

"Naomi" to "E: G. Crosby'

326

Navigation Congress, Iternational,

appropriation for proposed meeting..

667

invitation extended to Association to meet

in United States..........

667

Navigation Laws,

appropriation for enforcement of.......... 1230

Navy, appropriation for pay... retirement of paymasters' clerks.

605, 1265 606

allowance for quarters, Female Nurse

Corps........

606

schedule of all, and allowances to be

sent to Congress....

... 606, 1266

accounts of volunteer officers for serv-

ice in War with Spain to be opened

and resettled ..

1266

for pay, miscellaneous..

606, 1266

limit for clerical, etc., services.... 607, 1267

for contingent...

607, 1267

allowance for civilian employees... 607, 1267

establishing plan of accounting and

cost of work..

607

adjusting claims for collision damages,

limit.

607

pay, etc., chiefs of bureaus, Navy

Department......

607

direct and indirect charges to be in-

cluded in cost ofwork..

1267

money accounts to showcharges..... 1267

INDEX .

clxiii

Navy-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for contingent; partial payments allowed on contracts for work

done ...

1267

insurance on contracts to be provided

for ...

1267

officerswho perform engineering duty

on shore only, to be made addi-

tional numbers in the grade ...

1267

entitled to retirement benefits.... 1267

officers examined for promotion and

failing in physical examination, etc., to be retired with increased rank. 1267

for care oflepers, Guam naval station,. 1267

for Bureau of Navigation, transporta-

tion......

608, 1268

recruiting; evidence of age of minor

recruits; discharge...

608, 1268

contingent .

608, 1268

gunnery exercises ...

608, 1268

steaming exercises, prizes, etc .. 608, 1268

experiments inaviation..

1268

outfits on first enlistments .

609, 1268

naval auxiliaries, maintenance.... 609, 1269

trainingstations..

609, 1269

War College; clerical, etc. , services. 609, 1269

Naval Home..

610, 1270

for Bureau of Ordnance, ordnance; cler-

ical, etc., services...

611, 1270

smokeless powder..... naval gun factory. new batteries..

611, 1271 611, 1271 611, 1271

fire-control instruments ..

611, 1271

landing guns and appurtenances.... 1271

ammunition..

611, 1271

modernizing turrets.

611

small arms and machine guns... 611, 1271

torpedoes, mines, etc........ torpedo station. experiments; restriction....

611, 1271 612, 1271 612, 1271

naval militia; Department em-

ployees

612, 1272

service ofU.S. S. "Detroit" loaned 1272

repairs; contingent......

612, 1272

for Bureau of Equipment, equipment of

vessels....

612, 1272

clerical, etc., services....

613, 1272

maximum of pupils at schools having

naval equipment, reduced..

613

coal and transportation...

613, 1273

_contingent..

613, 1273

ocean and lake surveys.

613, 1273

depots for coal...

613, 1273

duties, etc., to be distributed to other

bureaus of department; discontinu-

ance of bureau....

613, 1273

use of appropriations restricted to

specific purposes; report.... 614, 1273

detail of line under staff officers in

manufacturing and repair depart-

ments....

614

for Bureau of Yards-and Docks, mainte

nance.

614, 1174

clerical, etc., services..

614, 1174

contingent.

614, 1174

public works..

614, 1174

siding to navy yard, Washington D. C. 615

naval station, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii... 1276

Marine Corps rifle range, Winthrop,

Md...

1277

repairs and preservation...

617, 1278

for public works, under Secretary of the

Navy.....

617

Bureau of Navigation.....

617

Bureau of Ordnance...

617

Bureau of Equipment....

618

Navy Continued.

Page.

appropriation for public works Bureau of

Medicine and Surgery.

618

Marine Corps....

618

for Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, sur-

geons' necessaries...

618, 1278

contingent .

619, 1278

transferring remains of officers and

men.

619, 1278

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts,

provisions...

619, 1278

use of profits on sales, etc.. clerical, etc., services....

619 620, 1279

contingent .

620, 1279

freight, Department and bureaus.. 620, 1279

Naval Supply Fund abolished..

1279

amount transferred to general account

of advances .

1279

issue, etc., of all materials to be gov-

erned by naval supply account .... 1279

for Bureau of Construction and Repair,

construction, etc..

620, 1280

repairs to specified vessels.......... 620, 1280

clerical, etc., services...... .... 621, 1280

construction plants.......

621, 1280

for Bureau of Steam Engineering, steam

machinery.... clerical, etc., services...

621, 1281 622, 1281

engineering experiment station.... 622, 1281

for Naval Academy...

622, 1281

for Marine.Corps .

624, 1284

for increase of Naval Establishment. 628, 1287

for construction and machinery, new

vessels.....

629, 1288

for submarine torpedo boats.

629, 1288

for torpedo boats with vitals below

water line..

629

for fleet colliers.

629

for armor and armament..

629, 1288

for equipment.....

629

limit of cost increased of battleship

"Florida'

1288

also of battleship to be built in navy

yard ..

1288

President requested to invite foreign fleets to assemble at Hampton

Roads, Va., etc., on way to Panama

opening celebration at San Fran-

cisco.

1289

none of sums for increase ofthe Navyto ·

be used for Department clerks,

etc ....

629, 1288

specific authority required for all ex-

penses...

1289

no purchases of steel, armor, etc., from

combinations in restraintoftrade, etc. 1289

for pensions

842, 1085

deficiency appropriation for naval station,

Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.......

211

for Bureau of Yards and Docks.

211,

221,791, 793, 810, 813, 1303, 1304, 1322, 1326

for Naval Academy..

212,

791, 1303, 1304, 1304, 1326

for Marine Corps..

212,

221, 225, 791, 794, 809, 813, 1305, 1322, 1326

for pay.

221,

225, 791,792, 809, 813, 1302, 1322, 1326

fór pay, miscellaneous.

221, 791,

792, 809,813, 1302, 1303, 1303, 1322, 1326

for Bureau of Navigation..

221 ,

226, 791, 792, 810, 813, 1303, 1304, 1322

for Bureau of Ordnance..

221,

791, 793, 810, 813, 1304, 1322, 1326

for Bureau of Equipment.

221,

793, 810, 813, 1303, 1303, 1322

clxiv

INDEX .

Navy-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for Bureau of

Medicine and Surgery.

221,

792, 793, 810, 1303, 1303, 1304, 1304

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts.. 221,

791, 810, 813, 1303, 1304, 1322, 1326 for Bureau of Construction and Repair.. 221,

226, 791, 810, 813, 1303, 1322, 1326

for Bureau of Steam Engineering.

221,

791, 794, 810, 1303, 1303 , 1322, 1326

for housing torpedo vessels...

221

for indemnity for lost property.

221,

810, 814, -1322, 1326

for destruction of clothing, etc........ 221, 810

for indemnity for lost clothing.. 226, 1322

for bounty, destruction of enemy's ves-

sels..

222, 226, 1322

for enlistment bounties to seamen..

222,

810, 1322, 1326

for stores to Italian earthquake sufferers. 790

for general account of advances....... 791, 1302

for George M. Stackhouse....

792

for naval training station, R. I.

791

for equipment plant, Philippine" Is-

lands..

810

for Bureau of Yards and Docks, public

works, New York Navy Yard...

889

for paying claims for damages from col-

lisions by vessels of.....

1302

for clothing, etc., to courts-martial pris-

oners, Mare Island, Cal .

1303

for provisions..

1303

for freight..

1322, 1326

appointment authorized of John K. Bar-

ton, as rear admiral, retired,:

352

John M. Blankenship, as ensign, retired.´ 899

Guy K. Calhoun, as professor of mathe-

matics; rank, pay, etc..........

352

Edward Forbes Greene, as lieutenant,

retired..

905

Kenneth McAlpine, as commander..

-843

Frederick W. Olcott, as passed assistant-

surgeon, retired .

903

Robert E. Peary, Corps of Civil En-

gineers, as rear-admiral, retired .... 1346

tendered thanks of Congress...

1346

M. H. Plunkett as passed assistant ,en-

gineer, retired..

1360

James H. Reid, as commander, retired .. 829

William HI, Walsh, as ensign, retired .... 1079

detail of officers to Hydrographic Office

limited to two...

508

discharges allowed in real name of minors

enlisting under assumed.

824

extended to war with Spain and Philip-

pine insurrection.....

824

issue of stores to earthquake sufferers in

Costa Rica.....

367

marine schools in designated ports may

have vessels, etc., loaned for in-

struction, etc..

1353

details of officers as superintendents or

instructors...

1353

Naval Academy band reorganized ..

297

naval supply account established..

792

officers detailed on investigations may ad-

minister oaths...

899

penalty for discriminating by theaters, etc., against wearers of uniforms of.. 963

restoration of Assistant Paymaster Edwin

M. Hacker, to place in list....

1080

retired pfficers to receive commissions for

advanced rank when promoted . 1354

suspended pay officers' accounts for ration

money, to be reopened and allowed . 1353

Navy- Continued .

Page.

transfer of Army transport " Ingalls " to,

authorized...

256

use of appropriations for Department contingent expenses forbidden...... 511, 1213
Navy Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc....

506, 1208

for Solicitor, clerks, etc ..

506, 1208

for clerks, etc., library..

....506, 1208

office Naval Records of Rebellion.. 506, 1208

continuing publication.

506, 1209

Judge Advocate General's Office.. 506, 1209

Bureau of Navigation...

506, 1209

Naval Intelligence Office..

506, 1209

Bureau of Equipment...

506, 1209

for Hydrographic Office...

507, 1209

for Naval Observatory..

508, 1211

for assistants, etc., Nautical Almanac

Office...

509, 1211

for clerks, etc., Bureau of Steam En-

gineering .

509, 1211

Bureau ofConstruction and Repair. 509, 1211

Bureau of Ordnance...

510, 1212

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts.. 510, 1212

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.. 510, 1212 Bureau of Yards and Docks.................... 510, 1212

for books and periodicals..

510, 1213

for contingent expenses..

510, 1213

use of Navy appropriations for De-

partment offices, etc., forbidden. 511, 1213

for fireproof file cases, etc..

...... 1213

for rent, Mills Building...

511, 1213

restriction on úse of naval service ap-

propriations on account of Depart-

ment.

511, 1213

for naval service.

605, 1265

for freight...

620, 1279

for printing and binding for.

768, 1446

deficiency appropriation for Navy.

211,

221, 225, 791, 809, 813, 889, 1302, 1322, 1326

for paying judgments, United States

courts, under....

217

for paying Court of Claims judgments

under....

218,807, 1319

for freight.....

221, 810, 813, 1322, 1326

for contingent expenses..

790

for, relief of sufferers, etc., earthquake in

Italy...

790

for Hydrographic Office..

809

for George F. Muth and Company... 1302

for paying claims for damages from col-

lisions by naval vessels..

1302

for Canadian Electric Light Company... 1302

for emergency fund....

1322

Navy Memorial, Vicksburg, Miss.,

appropriation for constructing..

725

Navy Yards and Stations,

appropriation for establishing accounting

and cost of work offices at..

607

for maintenance, etc...

614, 1274

cost of work at, to include direct and indi-

rect charges.....

1267

detail of line under staff officers permitted

in manufacturing and repair depart-

ments of...

614

Navy, Union, or Confederate,

census inquiries to be made of survivors of...

Navy Yearbook,

appropriation for compiler of, etc...... 766, 1171

publication for each calendar year ordered;

distribution...........

766

Nawrath, John P.,

deficiency appropriation for.......

776

INDEX ..

clxy

C2R9813128.

Neah Bay, Wash.,

Page. Nek-quel-e-rin, orWapate John, Indian Allottee, Page-

preliminary examination ofharbor ofrefuge to be made..
Neat Cattle (see also Cattle), importation of, prohibited, and hides.....

sale of portion of allotment to Wapato Irri-

676

gation Company, authorized ........ 1359

"Nero," U. S. S.,

86 appropriation for repairs......

621, 1280

suspended from countries not affected by contagious disease..
notification by Secretary of the Treas ury..
punishment for..

-Neroli,

87 on free list, oil.

Netherlands and Luxemburg,

87 appropriation for minister to.....

87

for secretary of legation.:

77
837,1027 837, 1028

Nebo National Forest, Utah,

Nets,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250 duty on, cotton, flax, etc..

**50

Nebraska,

cotton, etc., made on Nottingham lace or

appropriation for rifle range..

722

warp machines...

50

forresurveys of public lands in.

1417

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

assigned to eighth judicial circuit.

1131

Gothrough machine.......

50

homesteaders time to make residence, etc.,

flax....

49

in, extended......

189, 903

woolen head.

54

leave of absence allowed.

189,904

silk..

60

taxation of allotments to Omaha Indians

Nets and Nettings,

in..... Nebraska Judicial District,
additional judge allowed for... counties composing Omaha division.
Norfolk division... Chadron division...................

348 duty on, bead or spangle .

64

Nettings,

1087 duty on, cotton, fax, etc...

50

1118

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or

1118 ·

Gothrough machine...

50

1118 : flaxgill......

49

Grand Island division....

1118

silk.....

60

North Platte division..

1118

woolen....

54

Lincoln division................... Hastings division...

1118 Neuse River, N. C., 1118 appropriation for improvement of....... 641,988

McCook division........................

1118 Neutrality Act,

terms of court....

294, 1118

civil actions to be brought in division where defendant resides; excep

tion .....

294

trial of issues of fact..

294

appropriation for expenses under................... 340, 1031 Nevada,

appro·priation for purchase of lands for certain Indian families, near Love-

·lock School...

278

Nebraska National Forest, Nebr.,

for support, etc., of Indians in...

1067.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250 young trees to settlers in arid lands... 1250

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc..... 517,1220

for surveying township in...

741

Neches River, Tex.,

additional grant of desert lands under

board of engineers to consider project of

Carey Act to....

1417

improvement of, to Beaumont..... -649 assigned to ninth judicial circuit......

1181

conference with local interests, etc..... 649 Nevada Judicial District,

Neck Rufflings,

terms of court.....

1118

22222228F8F832

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

salary of district attorney- established ..... 1426

hair...

60 Nevada National Forest, Nev.,

cotton, flax, etc..

50 appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of, 428, 1250

silk.

60 New Albany, Ind.,.

Neebish Channel, Saint Marys River, Mich.,

appropriation for public building...

*1377

appropriation for lighting..

755 enlargement of public building at, author-

Needle Books,

ized ..

679

duty on.. Needle Cases,
duty on.. Needles,
duty on, crochet ....
knitting... knitting, etc., machine. latch..
not specially provided for.

28 terms of court at..............

1110

New Bedford, Mass.,

28 appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts.....

632,934

28 construction of public building authorized

28

· at; cost....

695

28

contracts authorized.

695*

28 preliminary examination of harbor, to be

-28

made...

-671

sewing-machine.. tape... on free list, darning.. hand sewing..

28 New Castle, Ind.,

28 appropriation for public building.

1377-

77 acquiring site and erecting public building

77

at, authorized..

685

Neenah, Wis., · appropriation for public building .

New England Gas and Coke Company, 1377 may dredge channel for Island End River .

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

693

across grounds of Chelsea Naval

'Hospital..

869

Negotiable Warehouse Receipts, D. C.,
issue, effect, negotiation, etc., of....... Nehalem Bay, Oreg.,

New Geneva, Pa.,.

301 bridge. authorized across Monongahela

River, at....

188

preliminary examination to be made of,
bar, etc.. Nehalem River, Oreg., · preliminary examination to be made of...

New Hampshire,

956 deficiency appropriation for land and fort

in Portsmouth.

1296

956 assigned to first judicial circuit.

1131

clxvi

INDEX .

New Hampshire Judicial District,

Page.

terms of court..

1119

New Haven, Conn.,

appropriation for completing breakwater. 633, 934

for improvement ofharbor; maintenance,

etc.

633

for public building...

1377

acquiring new site and construction of

public building authorized at..

694

sale of old building, etc....

694

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made ..

669

terms of court at.

1108

New Jersey,

assigned to third judicial circuit..

1131

to deposit contributive share, for improving

Delaware River at mouth of the

Neversink.

637

New Jersey Judicial District,

additional judge allowed for..

1087

terms of court .

1119

salary of district attorney established .. 1426

"New Jersey " U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs......

620

New London, Conn.,.

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

Shaws Cove....

633

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, advertising.

1294

Fort Trumbull Reservation, transferred to

Revenue-Cutter Service ..

906

granted immediate transportation entry

privileges.....

828

New Madrid Locations, Missouri,

title, etc., of United States to, claim of.

Daniel Hazel in, released ....

923

New Meadows River, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671
New Mexico,

appropriation for salaries, government

in.

500, 1202

for contingent expenses...

500, 1203

for legislative expenses..

500, 1203

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc.. 518, 1220

for support, etc., of Indians on reserva-

tions in..

272, 1062

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses..

226, 811

appellate jurisdiction of circuit courts of

appeals in judgments of supreme

court of.....

1134

assignment of justices permitted from time

to time...

237

judge to reside in district.

237

cases in which writs of error or appeals are

allowed to Supreme Court from

supreme court of.

1158

Fort Sumner land district, created...

585

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc. ,

in, extended ....

189, 904

leave of absence allowed .

189, 904

legislative acts disapproved, Sierra County..
no legislative session in 1911 .. New Mexico Judicial District,
created; courts... assigned to eighth circuit..
judge, attorney, marshal.... terms of court..

relating

to 879, 879
561
565 565 565 565

New Mexico, State of,

provisions for admission of.

557

Constitutional convention; delegates.... 557

apportionment; counties added since

1908 ...

557

proclamation of governor for election.... 558

New Mexico, State of-Continued. constitutional convention; conduct of elec-
tion; Territorial laws applicable; qualifications... meeting of convention; duties..
constitution; general principles; religious freedom..
polygamy and giving liquor to Indians prohibited ..
Pueblo Indian lands.
disclaimer of right to public and Indian lands...
equality of taxation ; lands of Indians not in reservations.
assumption of Territorial debts.. invalid bonds excepted .
provision for public schools...
right of suffrage; knowledge of English.. capital at Santa Fe, till 1926 ..
acquiescence in reclamation projects.... liquor prohibition on opened Indian res-
ervations...
consent to condition of land grants to State....
changes in foregoing prohibited . submission to the people... time for election; returns. certificate of rejection; reassembling of
convention ... action on new constitution ..
submission to President and to Congress. notification of approval..
proclamation by governor for election of officers; time..
convention to provide for election of officers...
election; returns, etc..................... certification of result.. admission as State by President's procla-
mation...
service of Territorial officers.. no legislative session in 1911..
public lands, additional grants for common schools...
selection in lieu of mineral lands, etc... restriction on indemnity selections . in national forests....
in lieu of grants to new States; universities; State buildings..
asylums, penitentiaries, etc.. miners' hospitals, normal schools, char-
itable, etc., institutions...
agricultural, etc., colleges; annual appropriations continued ..
school of mines, military institutes... bonds of Grant and Santa Fe Counties.
balance to common schools.. control of schools, etc...
sectarian prohibition... use of 5 per cent fund for common schools.
lands and proceeds to be held in trust.. disposal for other purposes a breach of trust.... mortgages forbidden ..
lands, sales and. leases to highest bidder; advertisement....
sales of timber, etc.; short leases..
appraisal and sales; minimum price..... irrigable lands......
relinquishment for reclamation projects. lieu selections...
water - power reservations; lieu selections..
separate funds of proceeds; investment, etc ..

Page.
558 558
558
558 558
558
559 559 559 559 559 559 559
560
560 560 560 560
560 560 560 560
560
561 561 561
561 561 561
561 561 562 562
562 562
562
562 563 563 563 563 563 563 563
563 563
563 563 564 564 564 564
564
564

INDEX .

clxvii

New Mexico, State of-Continued. lands; irregular sales, etc., void

Page. 564

enforcement of laws; rights of State and

citizens .....

564

commission to select granted lands; sur-

veys..

565

Territorial grants continued to State.... 565

pending litigation....

565

judicial district created; in eighth circuit. 565

judge, attorney, marshal; clerks; terms. 565

jurisdiction; determination of pending

appeals and writs of error..

565

succession of courts..

566

transfer of Federal cases..

566

other cases.....

566

pending proceedings not abated..

566

determination of State cases...

567

transfers to circuit court of appeals...

567

suits not begun before admission ....

567

State substituted for Territory in Federal

cases .

567

assembling of legislature...

567

certifying election of Senators and Repre-

sentatives......

567

operation of State government..

567

Territorial laws continued ; United States

laws....

567

appropriation for election and convention ;

expenses...

568

expenditures under direction of Secretary

of the Interior..

568

saline lands reserved.

568

New Mexico-Texas Boundary Line (see TexasNew Mexico Boundary Line).
New Orleans, La.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office...

495, 1198

for mint at.

497,1200

for public building, post office, and court-

house.....

706, 1377

limit of cost increased..

678, 1377

for public works, naval station..

616

for equipping and putting immigration

station in operation .

1441

acquiring site and building for subtreasury

at, authorized...

694

Port Eads light-house depot transferred to. 536

term of circuit court of appeals at..

1133

all appellate proceedings from court at

Beaumont, Tex., to be heard at.. 1133

terms of district court at.

1113

New Orleans, La., Customs District, Baton Rouge made subport of entry in.... 335
New River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; and

waterways to Beaufort..

641, 938

New River, Va. ,

dam authorized across, near Foster Falls,

Va.

921

Ivanhoe, Va..

922

New Rochelle, N. Y., appropriation for public building..... 686, 1377
New York,

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

raising volunteers, etc ..

1321.

assigned to second judicial circuit.

1131

to deposit contributive share improving Delaware River at mouth of the

Neversink.

637

New York City, N. Y.,

appropriation for dispatch agent.

340, 1030

for transferring foreign mail from steam-

ships.

364, 1337

for assistant treasurer's office .

498, 1198

for assay office at.....

499, 1201

New York City, N. Y.-Continued.

Page.

appropriationforsubtreasury, special repairs 708

for navy yard, public works......... 615, 1274

for assay office; enlarging..

706, 1377

contractauthorized for rebuilding, etc.;

limit.

1378

for barge office annex and pier ...... 706, 1378

use of fund also for reconstruction of

barge office.......

1378

for rent of temporary quarters..

1378

for post-office; limit ofcost increased. 706, 1378

' for pneumatic - tube system, custom-

house and appraisers' stores..... 708, 1385

for marine hospital, reconstruction .

1378

for rent, pension agency..

843

deficiency appropriation for public works,

navy yard, dry dock...

889

for assay office at; equipment.

1292

from balance of parting, etc. , bullion

fund

1292

for pension agency, rent..

1313

acceptance of franchise from, pneumatic

tube, customhouse to appraisers'

stores..

120

gold certificates authorized for deposits of

foreign gold coin at.

965

Jamaica Bay improvements subject to adoption of general plan by city... 635

may close certain navigable waters wholly

within its limits...

866

approval of Secretary of War and Chiefof

Engineers.....

866

liability for damages..

866

nonresponsibility of United States.

867

preliminary examination of Hudson River

at, to be made .

674

term of circuit court of appeals at..

1132

terms of circuit court for criminal cases. 232

district court at.

1119

New York Eastern Judicial District,

deficiency appropriation for pay, additional

district judge..

890

additional judge allowed for.................. . 838, 1087

counties composing..

1119-

terms of court.

1119

concurrent jurisdiction with southern dis-

trict over New York harbor waters,

etc...

1119

interchange with judges of other districts.. 1120

New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of, includ-

ing Ambrose Channel..

635, 935

for enforcinganchorage regulations in . 712, 1389

for improvement of Gowanus Bay...

728

for improvement of Ambrose Channel... 729

for improvement of waters connecting

Raritan Bay with...

936

for preventing injurious deposits in......._736,1407

preliminary examination of, to be made,

around Staten Island ......

953

at navy-yard....

953

New York Northern Judicial District,

counties composing.

1119

terms of court.

1119

in northern counties on appointment of

judge..

1119

interchange of judges in other districts.... 1120

New York Southern Judicial District,

three additional judges allowed for.......

1087

counties composing..

1119

terms of court.

1119

concurrent jurisdiction with eastern district

over New York harbor waters, etc .. 1119

interchange with judges of other districts.. 1120 terms of circuit court for criminal cases ... 232

clxviii

INDEX .



New York Western Judicial District, counties composing . terms of court.
interchange with judges of other districts.. New Zealand Hemp,

Page. 1119 1120
1120

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory

duty...

73

'Newark Bay, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of chan-

nel..

1406

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673

Newark, N. J.,

preliminary examination of ship canal from, to deep water, to be made.... 673

trials of United States civil cases at... 1119

Newark, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building ...... 1377

Newark, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.

705

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

"Newark," U. S. S.,

deficiency appropriation for new battery

.for..

793

Newbern, N. C.,

terms of court at..

1120

Newberry, S. C., appropriation for public building ...... 1377

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

Newburyport, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. *632

for public building.

1377

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized.....

680

sale of old custom-house at, authorized ... 697

Newfoundland,

appropriation for preparing reports, etc.,

of questions relating to.....

343

tonnage duty on vessels from......

111

Newkirk, J. N.,

deficiency appropriation for.....

120

Newnan, Ga.,

appropriation for public building.

1377

limit of cost increased, public building.. 677

Newport, Ark.,

appropriation for public building..

1377

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...........

684

Newport, Cal.,

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

955

Newport News Creek, Va., preliminary examination of, to be made .. 675

Newport News, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of channel ·

to .

640

for improvement of harbor; contracts... 937

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

954

Newport, Oreg.,

made port of delivery..............

579

Newport, R. I.,

appropriation for naval torpedo station. 612, 1271

for naval torpedo station, public works.. 1277

for improvement of harbor; contracts. 632; 1406

terms of court at..

1123

Newport River, N. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 674

Newport, Vt.,

terms of court at.

1127

Newspapers,

duty on printing paper for, not specially

provided for..

61

additional from country imposing ex-

port duty on, etc...

61

on free list..

77

Newspaper Wrappers, Stamped,

Page.

appropriation for freight or expressage

on..

362, 1935

for manufacture; distribution........... 364, 1337

deficiency appropriation for manufacture.. 802 Newton Place NW., D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extension

of....

200

appropriation for..

201

Newtown Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of. .... 636, 936

Nez Perce Indians, Joseph's Band, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of... 286, 1075

deficiency appropriation for support, etc.. 1323

Nezperce National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

Niagara River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of..........

636

preliminary examination to be made of. 673, 953 Nicaragua,

appropriation for minister to.....

337, 1027

for secretary of legation..

337, 1028

Nichols Avenue SE., . C.,

deficiency appropriation for grading, etc.. Nicholson, Paymaster R.,
credit in accounts for suspended naval ration money allowances..
Nickel, duty on.
alloys.. bars..
ingots. oxide .

783
1352
31 31 31 31

manufactures of, not specially provided

for..

33

pigs...

31

plates....

31

rods..

81

sheets..

31

strips..

31

on free list, ore and matte.

78

Nickerson, Ziba H.,

deficiency appropriation for heirs of...... 1296
Night Lodging House, D. C., donation of, to District accepted.......... 1001

Night Schools, D. C.,

appropriation for teachers, etc .......... 394, 985

Niles, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1378

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

691

Nineteenth Street NW., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 784

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing..

373

appropriation for expenses.

373

former act repealed; proceedings dis-

continued .

374

Nininger, Minn.,

bridge authorized across Mississippi River,

at..

958

Ninth Judicial Circuit,

Arizona district assigned to....

576

States included in...

1131

three circuit judges authorized for..

1131

appellate jurisdiction of circuit court of

appeals, in cases from district court

for Alaska.

1134

to be heard in San Francisco, Portland,

or Seattle...

1135

appellate proceedings United States court

in China, to be heard in..

1134

Niobrara River,

time extended to dam, on Fort Niobrara

Military Reservation, Nebr...

920

INDEX.

clxix

Nippers, duty on.
Niter Cake,

Page. 33.

duty on...

17

Nitrates, etc., Natural Fertilizers,

appropriation for investigating source of

supply of, within United States... 1256

Nitric Acid,

on free list.

71

Nitro-Benzol,

on free list.

74

Nitro-Toluol,

on free list

74

Nitrogen, Lime,

on free list.

76

Nitropicric Acid,

on free list .

71

Nodaway River, Mo.,

declared not a navigable water.......

194

Noils, Wool,

duty on.

53

Nolan, W. Va.,

time extended for bridging Tug Fork, Big .

Sandy River, near...

198

Nome, Alaska,

appropriation for hospital for temporary

detention of insane persons.....

852

Nomini Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 640, 938

Nonenumerated Articles,

duty on, manufactured .....

71

not manufactured ..

71

similar to enumerated..:

'71

to two or more......

71

two or more materials .

71

highestrate applicable..

71

Nonimportation ofImported Fruit, etc., -regulations for allowance for, caused by

damage, etc.......

102

Nonnavigable Waters, declaration as to Big Tarkio River, Mo.... 194

Nodaway River, Mo..

194

One Hundred and Two River, Mo...... 194

Norfolk, Nebr., terms of court at....

294, 1118

Norfolk, Va.,

appropriation for navy-yard, public

· works .....

616, 1275

for marine officers' quarters, navy-yard.. 618

for improvement of harbor; distribu-

tion...

639, 937

forimprovement of, and channel to New-

port News; contracts........

640, 937

for improvement of waterway to Albe

marle Sound from.....

640, 938

for improvement of waterways to Sounds ofNorth Carolina; maintenance..... 641

for improvement of harbor, from Hamp-

ton Roads.

729

for naval magazine, Saint Julians Creek. , 1277

for lighting channels to harbor....

1431

harbor range lights authorized..

535

inland waterway to Beaufort Inlet, N. C.,

· purchase of canals authorized, for

part of.

640

terms of court at..

1128

North Adams, Mass.,

appropriation for public building..

1378

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, water

208

North America,

tonnage duty on vessels from ports in..... 111 North Atlantic Fisheries,

appropriation for arbitration of questions

relating to..

765

North Atlantic Fisheries Arbitration; message and documents relating to, ordered
printed North Attleboro, Mass.,
appropriation for public building. acquiring site and erecting public building
at, authorized... North Carolina,
assigned tofourth judicial circuit . North Carolina Eastern Judicial District,
counties composing.. terms of court.

Page.
1456 1378 686 1131 1120 1120

North Carolina Western Judicial District,

counties composing..

1120

· terms of court ..

1120

Charlotte ...

186

Greensboro...

186

acts of John W. Dula as de facto commis-

sioner, legalized..

229

North Dakota,

appropriation for purchasing school sec-

tions for, on Standing Rock Indian

Reservation, increased.

196

for school sections for, Fort Berthold

Indian Reservation ...

458.

for completing field notes.of surveys

in ....

742, 1417

deficiency appropriation for incidentals,

Indian Service in....

811

assigned to eighth judicial circuit.

1131

Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, unsur-

" veyed lands, to be allotted, sold,

etc..

455-

homesteaders' timeto make residence, etc.,

in, extended.....

189, 903

leave ofabsence allowed .

.... 189,904

North Dakota Judicial District,

counties composing southwestern division. southeastern division..... northeastern division..........
northwestern division.. western division...... Indian reservations included terms of court ..

1121 . 1121 1121 1121 1121 1121 1121

North Fork ofCoquille River, Oreg., preliminary examination of, to be made... 674

North Fork of Kentucky River, Ky.,

preliminary examination to be made of... 955

North, H. L., et al.,

may bridge Saint Croix River, Saint Croix

County, Wis ..

921

North Manitou Island, Lake Michigan,

light vessel authorized near..

536

North Pacific Pilot Chart,

appropriation for expenses of monthly.. 508, 1210

North Pennsylvania Railroad Company,

may bridge Delaware River, Lower Make-

field, Pa., to Ewing, Ñ. J........................

959

North Platte, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building .. terms of court at.

1978 294, 1118

NorthRiver, N. Y. (seeHudson River, N. Y.).

North Tonawanda, N. Y.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made

953

North Yakima, Wash.,

appropriation for public building ..... 706, 1378

limit of cost increased, public building . 679

terms of courtat .

1128

Northeast Cape Fear River, N. C., · preliminary examination of, to be made.... 954 Northeast River, Md.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

clxx

INDEX .

Northeast River, N. C.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of ..

642,938

Northern and Northwestern Lakes, appropriation for surveys, etc...

730, 1407

Northern Indians in California,

balances of appropriations for, available

to purchase lands for landless In-

dians .

273

Northern Pacific Railroad Land Grant,

appropriation for examination and classi-

fication of lands within ..........739, 1307

for expenses of hearings..

739

Northern Pacific Railway Company,

may bridge Columbia River, between

Grant and Kittitas Counties, Wash.. 600

Yellowstone River, Dawson County,

Mont...

600

Northport, Wash.,

may bridge Columbia River ......

1351

Norwalk, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 633

Norway, appropriation for minister to..
for secretary of legation....
Notes, Postal, issue of..

.... 337, 1027 337, 1028
1340

Nottingham Lace Curtain Machines,

dutyon window curtains, etc., of cotton,

etc., made on..

50

Nottingham Warp Machines,

duty on lace curtains, etc., of cotton, etc.,

made on..

50

Noxubee County, Miss., bridge authorized across Noxubee River in. 178

-Norubee River,

bridge authorized across, in Noxubee

County, Miss...

178

Nuevo Laredo, Mexico,

bridge authorized across Rio Grande, be-

tween Laredo, Tex., and.

188

Nurse Corps, Army (female),

appropriation for superintendent.............. 249, 1042

for nurses ..

249, 1042

pay increased .

249

extra rate for duty outside of the States 249

cumulative leaves of absence allowed. 249

allowances to superintendent.

249

Nurse Corps, Navy (female), appropriation for pay; rent of quarters .. 606, 1266

commutation ofquarters allowed; payments

heretofore made allowed...

606

Nut Oil, orOil ofNuts,

on free list..

77

Nutgalls,

duty on.

13

aqueous extract of..

13

on free list, crude, drugs, not specially pro-

vided for....

75

Nutmegs,

on free list, unground ..

79

Nutrition Investigations,

appropriation for expenses of......... 438, 1262

Nuts,

duty on, edible, not specially provided for. 38

not edible........

13

pickled ...

36

wrought-iron or steel .

28

on free list, Brazil...

77

cocoanuts in the shell and copra..

77

cream .

77

crude, not edible, drugs, not specially

provided for....

75

marrons, crude...

77

nux vomica....

77

palm and palm-nut kernals.

77

222 7 8888 FEE PEER

Nux Vomica, on free list...

Page. 77

Nyack, N. Y., appropriation for public building...

1378

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

691

0.

Oak Harbor, Wash.,

preliminary examination of ship canal, Port Townsend Bay and, to be made 676

Oakland, Cal.,

appropriation forimprovement of harbor. 661, 949

transfer of bridges to city..

661

dredging plant authorized..

949

Oakum,

on free list..

77

Oakwood Cemetery, Chicago, Ill.,

appropriation for care of Confederate

Mound ......

724, 1400

marking of graves of Confederate soldiers,

etc., extended to...

882

Oarblocks,

duty on, rough hewn, etc........

33

Oaths, Customs,

abolished, except provided for in TariffAct. 102

declaration in lieu of, for exports....

102

penalties for false statements in..

102

Oaths in Investigations, etc.,

officers in departments authorized to ad-

minister..

898

of Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Revenue-Cutter Service, included .. 899

Oaths, Pension Cases, rural delivery carriers may administer; fees 843

Oats,

duty on.

35

hulls.

35

oatmeal and rolled .

35

Obion River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of.

651

Obscene Books, Pictures, etc.,

importation of, prohibited..

86

entry forbidden; seizure, etc.

86

punishment for aiding, etc. , by officials. 86

procedure for seizure, etc..

86

Observatory, Naval (see Naval Observatory) .

Ocala, Fla.,

terms of court at .

1108

Ocala National Forest, Fla., appropriation for maintenance, etc., of... 428
Occoquan Creek, Va., appropriation for improvement of.......... 640
Ocean Steamers,

appropriation for enforcing use of wireless

communication on .

1230

555

Ocher and Ochery Earths,

duty on, ground in oil or water..

15

not specially provided for.

15

powdered, etc..

15

Ochoco National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1250 Ocmulgee River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of.......643, 939 · Oconee River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 643, 939 O'Connell, Honorable Joseph F.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses.....

1317

Oconto, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 656 Odd Fellows, Independent Order of,

granted land for cemetery, Central City,

Colo.....

892

mineral rights reserved..

892

INDEX .

clxxi

Offenses Under Federal Laws,

Page.

jurisdiction of United States courts, ex-

clusive of State, in.....

1161

Office ofExperiment Stations (see Agricultural

Experiment Stations Office, Depart-

ment of Agriculture) .

Officers, Army,

appropriation for pay of the line; lon-

gevity.....

245, 1039

for pay of staff; longevity.

247, 1040

for pay of retired; longevity. on active service; longevity.

248, 1042 248, 1042

for commutation of quarters, on duty

withouttroops ....

249, 1043

for mileage

250, 1043

for 10 per cent increase, service beyond

United States...

250, 1043

for six months' pay of, dying in serv-

ice...

250, 1043

for additional pay to, furnishing their

own mounts.

250, 1043

for disposition of remains of..

723, 1400

deficiency appropriation for mileage. 220, 225, 809

for mileage to, traveling without troops . 220

for transportation...

220

for pay..

1300

additional pay for, dying in service, avail-

able for beneficiaries.....

123

assignment of retired, on active duty as road commissioners in Alaska, au-

thorized; pay, etc...

1052

details forservice under Cuba and Panama,

permitted; limit, etc....

324

details for instructors, etc., of Organized

Militia on request of governors ... 1045

vacancies from; number limited...

1045

proportion of detached officers; filling vacancies in second lieutenants..... 1045

Engineer Corps, number increased.

957

horses of mounted, ordered to distant sta-

tions may be purchased ; price.... 254

Medical Reserve Corps, retirement at 70,

etc ...:

580

promotion of line, who lost lineal rank by

regimental promotions prior to Octo-

ber 1, 1890..

1058

Quartermaster's Department, number of

officers increased..

1045

readjustment of stoppages, etc., for pay-

ments for exercise of higher com-

mands between April 26, 1898, and

March 18, 1907 ..

1039

retired, to receive commissions for ad-

vanced rank when promoted.... 347, 1354

second lieutenants, filling vacancies in

grade....

1045

separated from authorized number of

horses not deprived of forage, etc.,

therefor....

252

to be dropped from rolls if absent three " months without leave, or in confine-

ment by civil court .

894

reappointment prohibited...

894

Officers, Marine Corps,

appropriation for pay; longevity....... 624, 1284

for retired; longevity.

624, 1284

for mileage...

625, 1284

for commutation of quarters without

troops ..

625, 1284

with troops...

627, 1286

for transporting remains of, dying

abroad..

619, 1278

limit of expenditures for quarters for..

618

retired, to receive commissions for ad-

vanced rank when promoted ... 1354

Officers, Navy,

Page.

appropriation for pay..

605, 1265

for transporting remains of, dying

abroad..

619, 1278

deficiency appropriation for mileage to;

disallowances..

1303

accounts of volunteer, war with Spain, to

be reopened, etc....

1266

complete schedule of all pay. and allowancesto be sent to Congress..... 606, 1266
detail of line, under staff, in manufacturing

and repair departments at yards and

stations...

614

to Hydrographic Office limited totwo... 508 to marine schools as instructors, etc., au-

thorized ....

1353

failing promotion from physical disability

contracted in line of duty, to be re-

tired at promoted rank..

1267

pay, etc., of, serving as chiefs of bureaus.. 607

commissions to issue....

608

performing engineering duty on shore only,

to be additional numbers of the

grade......

1267

retirement benefits at rank held..

1267

retired, to receive commissions for advanced rank when promoted....... 1354

Officers, Organized Militia,

position, rank, and precedence of, serving

with Regulars..

234

Official Gazette, Patent Office,

appropriation for printing and binding. 768, 1446

Official Postal Guide,

appropriation for publication............................. 522, 1224

Official Reporters,:

appropriation for House of Representa-

tives...

477, 1180

for Senate .

473, 1175

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-
ices, House of Representatives.... 128, 805, 1317

for extra services, Senate.... 127,804, 1314

for extra month's pay, House of Repre

sentatives ......

127,804, 1317

for extra month's pay, Senate... 127,804, 1317

Officials, Government,

punishment for bribery, etc., of, in cus-

toms matters ...

103

receiving bribes, etc., in customs cases.. 103

Ogden, Utah,

terms of court at.

1127

Ogdensburg, N. Y., . appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Ogunquit, Me.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be .

made..

671

Ohio,

assigned to sixth judicial circuit.......... 1131

Ohio Northern Judicial District,

additional judge allowed for..

202, 1087

deficiency appropriation for additional

judge..

799

counties composing eastern division .................. 1121

western division...

1121

terms of court.............

1121

Ohio River,

appropriation for improvement of, by locks

and dams to secure 9-foot channel;

contracts ...

654, 946

sites for Locks and Dams Nos. 9, 10, 12,

14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27,

28, 29, 41, and 48.

654

constructing Locks and Dams Nos. 7, 9,

10, 12, 19, 20, 21, 41, and 48 ; con-

tracts....

654, 1406

clxxii

INDEX .

Ohio River-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for improvement of, and

maintenance; working plant author-

ized

654

completion of Locks and Dams Nos. 2,

3, 4, 5, 8, and 11.....

654

for improvement of, below Pittsburg,

Pa., Locks and Dams Nos. 13 and

18 ..

729

Lock and Dam No. 26.

... 729, 1405

Lock and Dam No. 37.......

730

for lighting.

754

for removing içe gorges in...

873

report, etc., to be made on constructing

canal from, near Pittsburg, to Lake

Erie, at local expense..

956

Ohio Southern Judicial District,

additional district judge authorized for. 202, 1087

former limitation repealed.....

202

deficiency appropriation for additional

judge.. counties composing western division.
eastern division ..

799 1121. 1122

terms of court.

1122

Oil-Bearing Lands,

within temporary reservations for power

sites, etc., not open to occupation,

etc..

847

rights of bona-fide claimants not im-

paired....

847

status of asserted claims..

847

Oil Cake,

on free list..................

77

Oil City, Pa.,

appropriation for public building......

1378

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized..

680

Oil Housesfor Light Stations,

appropriation for; limit..

755

Oil, Mineral, patents for mineral entries not to be denied

solely because assigned before dis-

covery of.

1015

Oil Pipe Lines,

held to be common carriers.

544

right of way for, granted through public lands in Arkansas....
Oil Seeds,

duty on, not specially provided for....................

Oil of Vitriol, duty on, not specially provided for.....................

Oil-Spreading Machines,

on free list, for improving, etc. , roads,

prior to January 1, 1911

32

Oilcloth,

. dutyon, cotton, etc. , not specially provided

for...

46

floor coverings.

49

for floors..

50

mats..

49

Oils,

duty on, castor

14

cocoanut.

39

cod-liver.

14

distilled .

12

essential.

12

expressed..

12

fish, not specially provided for..

14

flaxseed, raw, boiled, or oxidized..

14

fruit..

13

fusel .

14

hemp-seed .

14

herring...

14

linseed, raw, boiled, or oxidized ..

14

not specially provided for...

12

olive....

14

32



Oils-Continued.

Page.

### 9 ### EEEEEEEE8EEEEEEEEEEESESEEEE 29EEEEEEEEEEEEE@FFFFFF 8*

duty on peppermint..

14

. poppy-seed, raw,,boiled, or oxidized.

14

rape seed..

14

rendered .....

12

seal.......

14

Bod.....

14

whale..

14

on free list, almond

77

amber...

77.

ambergris, crude and rectified.

77

aniline...

77

anise and anise seed .

77

anthoss...

77

aspic....

77

attar of roses..

77.

benzine ..

78

bergamot..

77

cajeput..

77

caraway !

77

cassia...

77

cedrat..

77

chamomilé.

77

cinnamon.

citronella or lemon grass. civet...
cocoanut, not refined or deodorized . cotton-seed.. creosote.. croton . dead..

77 77 - 77 77 74 77 74

enfleurage grease..

fennel.

77

fish, of American fisheries....

77

flower essences, primal......

forsoap making, wire drawing, orstuffing

or dressing leather, not specially

provided for.

76

gasoline..

78

ichthyol..

77

jasmine or jasimine. juglandium..
juniper.... kerosene .

lavender .

77

lemon......

77

limes ......

77

mace .

naphtha.. neroli or orange flower..

nut, or oil of nuts ....

olive, not edible...................

77

origanum....

77

palm and palm kernel.

77

petroleum, crude or refined.

78

rosemary .

sesame or sesamum.

soya-bean .

77

spike lavender..

77

thyme...

valerian .

Okanogan Electric Railway Company,

may bridge Columbia River at Bridgeport,

Wash..

293

Okanogan Riverat Defflins Ferry, Wash. 294 Okanogan National Forest, Wash.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of........ 1250

Okanogan River,

bridge authorized across, Defflins Ferry,

Wash..

294

*

Omak, Wash..

180

Oklahoma,

appropriation for incidental expenses, In-

dian Service in....

281

for suits to set aside conveyances, Five

Civilized Tribes' allotments..... 748, 1425

INDEX.

clxxiii

Oklahoma-Continued.

· Page.

appropriation for setting aside illegal conveyances of Seminole allotments,etc. 1425

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

fraudulent Mexican Kickapoo In-

dian allotment deeds..

123

for district agents for minor Indian allot-

tees in..

212

for Pawnee Indian schools.

226

assigned to eighth judicial circuit...

1131

Cheyenne and Arapahoe agency and school

lands, etc., El Reno, may be sold for

Masonic orphanage, etc..

190

coal land lease extended of Savanna Coal

Company...

832

relinquished, and new area granted to

Denison Coal Company..

832

federal jails in, conveyed to counties,

etc.....

702

conditions....

702

sale of lands to Friends in former Otoe

Missouria Reservation; payment, etc. 859

Grand Lodge of Masons in....

923

trust allotments to Indians, general pro-

visions not applicable to...

856

Oklahoma City, Okla.,

appropriation for public building.

706, 1378

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional ground.

678

terms of court at.:

1122

Oklahoma Eastern Judicial District,

appeals to Supreme Court allowed in suits

affecting allotted lands with-

in .

837

counties composing.

1122

terms of court.

1122

Oklahoma Grand Lodge ofMasons,

may purchase Cheyenne and Arapahoe agency and school lands, El Reno,

for orphanage, etc... Oklahoma Western Judicial District,

counties composing. terms of court..
.Woodward..
Oklawaha River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of; maintenance of lake levels ..

1122 1122
825.

preliminary examination of, to be made..

Olalla Diking District, Oreg., may construct dike across Olalla Slough, Lincoln County, Oreg ......
Olalla Slough, construction of dike authorized across, Lincoln County, Oreg......

Olathe, Colo.,

granted lands for public park........................ Olcott, Frederick W.,

maybe appointed passed assistant surgeon,

Navy, retired......

Olcott, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

673

Old Lyme, Conn., bridge authorized across Connecticut ·

River, between Old Saybrook and.. 228
Old Saybrook, Conn., bridge authorized across Connecticut

River, between Old Lyme and............. Oldmans Creek, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of; condition ..

Oldtown, Me.,

construction of public building authorized at.
Oleo Stearin,

on free list.....

2 222282 23 8.822

Olive Oil, duty on, in bottles, etc. not specially provided for..... on free list, not edible, for industrial´uses .
Olives, duty on....
Olongapo, P. I.,

Page. 14 14. 77
38

appropriation for naval magazine, public

works......

618, 1277

deficiency appropriation for repairing, etc.,.

dry dock " Dewey " at ...

793

Olympia, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

cooperation by local interests ..... 665, 951

for public building...

1378

construction of public building authorized

at.

683

Olympic National Forest, Wash.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

Omaha and Winnebago Agency,

payment ofshare of expenses from interest

due Winnebagoes..

· 877

Omaha Indians, Nebr.,

appropriation for paying drainage assessment; Richardson County, Nebr.,

on lands of...

369

all claims against United States by, sub-

mitted to Court of Claims.................

580

jurisdiction, eto

580

time for presenting, etc

581

fees to attorneys; limit..

581

allotments held by, subject to taxes .

348

delinquent taxes from tribal funds..

348

release if funds not available....

348 .

Omaha, Nebr.,

terms of court at..

294, 1118

Omak, Wash.,

bridge authorized across Okanogan River

at..

180

grant oflands for public park to; payment.. 1350

rights, etc., reserved ....

1350

Onancock River, Va., appropriation for improvement of.......... 640

One Hundred and Two River, Mo.,

declared not a navigable water...

194

Oneida Indians, Wis.,.

negotiations with, for coinmutation of an-

nuities, to be reopened.........

1077

Oneida, N. Y.,

examination directed of situation, etc., for

public building at........

697

Oneonta, N. Y.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

Onions,

duty on..

36

Ontario Bridge Commission, Oreg.,

bridge across Snake River built by Mal-

heur County Court and, legalized... 191

Ontario Chamber ofCommerce, etc.,

may bridge Snake River at Ontario, Oreg. 179

Ontario, Oreg.,

bridge across Snake River at, legalized.... 191

authorized across Snake River at...

179

Ontonagon, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 655 Onyx,
duty on, monuments, etc.
mosaic cubes, etc.. rough, etc.. tiles...

Opelika, Ala.,

construction of public building authorized

at.

680

Opelousas, La.,

terms of court at..

1114

clxxiv

INDEX .

Opera Glasses, duty on...
Opinions ofAttorney-General, appropriation for preparing, etc., Vol. 27..
Opium, duty on..
alkaloids, etc., of.. extracts, etc., of, not specially provided
for...

Page. 21
749
14 14
15

Opium Evil,

deficiency appropriation for expenses in-

ternational investigation of...........

775

Optical Instruments,

duty on glass.....

21

on free list, glass plates or disks, rough-cut,

for...

76

Orange County, Fla., bridge authorized across Lake Jessup in... 330

Orange Flower,

on free list, oil ..

77

Orange Mineral,

duty on...

15

Orange, N. J.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

682

Orange Navigation District, Tex.,

contribution for improving Sabine-Neches .

Canal to be made by..

944

deposit required; maintenance of chan-

nel, etc....

944

Orange Peel,

duty on..

38

on free list, not preserved, etc....

78

Orange River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of......... 645

Orange, Tex., appropriation for improvement of SabineNeches Canal from Sabine River to. 944
local contribution, maintenance, etc.. 944

Orange Wood,

on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrellas,

canes, etc.....

81

Orangeburg, S. C.,

appropriation for public building..

1378

limit of cost increased, public building.... 679

preliminary examination of waterways to Charleston from, to be made............. 675

Oranges,

duty on..

38

peel..

38

on free list, peel, not preserved, etc .....

78

Bour, juice.....

76

Orchids,

duty on..

36

Orchil or Orchil Liquid,

on free list.....

78

Orders ofInterstate Commerce Commission,

directing payment of money, enforcing... 554 proceedings in circuit court; recoveries.. 554

service of.....

554

suspension or modification allowed .

554

compliance by carriers....

554

recovery of forfeitures; proceedings... 555

other than payment of money to be en-

forced in commerce court...

555

Ordnance and Ordnance Stores, Navy,

appropriation for......

611, 1270

for smokeless powder.

611, 1271

for ammunition, etc.

611, 1271

for lining and hooping 8-inch guns.........

611

deficiency appropriation for..

1322, 1326

Ordnance Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of enlisted men;

longevity...

246, 1039

for pay of officers; longevity . for current expenses.

247, 1041 260, 1056

2 5

Ordnance Department, Army-Continued. Page.

appropriation for ammunition, etc., for

small arms ...

260, 1056

for firing morning and evening gun.. 260, 1056

for small-arms target practice, medals,

etc....

260, 1057

issue to educational, etc., institu-

tions...

261, 1057

for blank ammunition to troops at ma-

neuvers .....

261

for manufacture of arms at armories.. 261, 1057

sales to Cuba authorized..

261

for issue of standard automatic pistols,

etc., for Organized Militia........

1057

exchange of ammunition...

1057

forrepairing ordnance, etc....

261, 1057

for purchase, etc., of ordnance stores.. 261, 1057

for equipments ...

261, 1057

for material, etc., for State seacoast ar-

tillery; withdrawal ..

261

for national trophy, etc., rifle contests 261, 1058

for automatic rifles; available for two

years.

261, 1058

for Field Artillery material for Organized

Militia..

1058

forarsenals and armories.

720, 1397

for fortifications...

596, 1343

deficiency appropriation for replacing

ordnance and ordnance stores..

220

for manufacture ofarms...

220, 1321

interchange of materials in manufacture,

etc., allowed.....

1344

charged toappropriation using...

1344

return of field guns, etc., from Massachu-

setts..

602

appropriation for expenses........

603

restriction on receiving back articles

sold to militia...

603

written contracts required if not to be performed in sixty days, etc........ 261

Ordnance, Obsolete,

donated to Georgia.

875

United Spanish War Veterans...

1457

Ordnance Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

503, 1205

draftsmen, etc. , to be paid from appro-

priations for fortifications, etc ... 503, 1205

Oregon,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc ..

518, 1220

for surveying township, Harney County. 741

deficiency appropriation for pay, etc., vol-

unteers.

220, 225, 809, 813

assigned to ninth judicial circuit..

1131

claim for expenses, raising volunteers,

etc., to bereopened..

777

services of volunteers, Indian wars

1847-48, to be readjusted ; report.. 1295 consent of Congress to agreement ofbound-

ary in Columbia River, between

Washington and.........

881

contribution for new canal and locks

around Willamette Falls by....

664

creation or enlargement of national forests

in, forbidden, except by act of Con-

gress....

848

desert lands selections relinquished ..... 1357

lands in national forests given in ex-

change...

1357

homesteaders' time to make residence,

etc., in, extended...

904

leave ofabsence allowed..

904

Siletz Indian Reservation, reserved lands

to be sold , etc....

367

intoxicants prohibited .

368

Vale land district, created .

238

INDEX .

clxxv

Oregon City, Oreg.,

Page.

appropriation for purchase of canal and

locks around Willamette Falls..... 664

forconstruction of new ones......

664

contribution by State.......

664

Oregon County, Mo., transferred from eastern to western judicial district, southern division....... 370

Oregon Judicial District,

additional judge allowed for..

1087

terms of court....

1122

Oregon National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

Oregon Slough, Oreg., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674

Oregon Trunk Railway, may bridge Columbia River and Celilo

Canal, Celilo, Oreg.......

230

right of way across lands of Celilo Canal

granted to.....

230

Ores,

admission of imported, in bonded smelting warehouses without paying duty.... 89

duty on, antimony; determination of... 29

iron....

21

manganiferous..

21

lead; determination...

30

tungsten-bearing...

31

zinc, containingten percent and more.. 31

on free list, cerium...

74

chromic...

74

cobalt..

74

copper..

74

emery.

75

gold..

78

manganese..

77

nickel......

78

silver...

78

sulphur..

79

tin; future duty provisions...

80

zinc, containingless than ten per cent... 31

Organized Militia (see Militia, Organized). Oriental Rugs,

355

duty on..

55

Origanum,

on free list, oil...................

77

Orlando, Fla.,

appropriation for public building....... 1378

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

689

Orleans, and Extracts of,

on free list...

72

Ornamental Objects ofArt,

288

on free list, produced more than 100 years

before importation......

82

Ornaments,

duty on bead orspangle......

64

china, etc., decorated, etc..

18

china, etc., not decorated..

18

cotton, flax, etc..

50

millinery and military, silver, etc..

67

silk..

60

tinsel wire, etc ..

30

woolen....

54

Orpiment,

on free list...

72

Osage City, Kans.,

appropriation for public building....

1378

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

685

Osage Indians,

civilization fund account closed.

1062

balance covered into the Treasury..

1062

general allotment provisions not applicable

to...

863

Osage River, Mo.,

Page.

appropriation forimprovement of........ Oshkosh, Wis.,
terms of court at.....
Osier,
duty on braids, laces, etc. for baskets ..
hats, bonnets, and hoods.. manufactures of...
Osmium, on free list..
Oswego, N. Y.,

661, 949
1129
64 34 65 34
76

appropriation forimprovement ofharbor. 635,935 Otoe and Missouria Indians,

all claims against United States by, submitted to Court of Claims .. .....
jurisdiction, etc....
attorney's fees, etc.; limit. grant of landsto Friends in former reserva-
tion ..

580 580 581 /
859

consent ofIndians; price; use of proceeds

for benefit of..

859

Ottawa, Kans.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

Otter, Alaska,

- punishment for killing.......

327

Otter Island, Alaska,

made a special Governmentreservation.... 327

punishment for illegal landing on, etc... 327

Otter Island, Me.,

light and fog signal station authorized on.-- 534 Ottoman Empire (see Turkey).

Ottumwa, Iowa,

appropriation for public building. terms of court at .

706, 1379 1112

Ouachita County, Ark.,

-may bridge Ouachita River, at Camden. 178, 1013 Ouachita River, Ark. andLa.,

appropriation for improvement of; Locks

and Dams Nos. 2, 4, 6, and 8; con-

tracts authorized ..

650, 945

for removing obstructions between Cam-

den and Arkadelphia..

650, 945

surveys, etc., for Locks and Dams Nos.

3 and 7.

650

bridge authorized across, Camden, Ark. 178, 1013

Outfits, Navy First Enlistments,

appropriation for ..

609, 1268

deficiency appropriation for... 221, 792, 303, 1322

for naval apprentices ..

221

for landsmen .

815

Owatonna, Minn.,

appropriation for public building .

1379

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Owensboro, Ky.,

appropriation for public building ..... 706, 1379

terms of court at ..

1113

Owner ofImported Merchandise,

'declaration to be made by, with invoice of

goods actually purchased .........

94

not actually purchased .

95 ·

punishment for false....

95

Ox Shoes,

duty on wrought-iron or steel..

28

Oxalic Acid,

1

duty on .

12

Oxford, Miss.,

terms of court at....

1116

Oxford, N. C.,

construction of public building, authorized

at...

682

Oyster Creek, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 650, 944

clxxvi

INDEX.

***£*8*1

Ozark National Forest, Ark.,

Page.

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250

Ozark Power and Water Company,

may dam White River, Taney County,

Mo.

897

Palm Leaf,

Page.

duty on, braids, laces, etc

64

hats, bonnets, and hoods...

64

· manufactures of, not specially provided ·

for ..

69

on free list, common, fans, plain..

75

natural ..

75

P.

Palmas Altas, P. R.,

Pacific Coast Torpedo Station, Navy,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be made...

appropriation for purchase of land for;,

equipment, etc..

618 Palmer, Henry E., reappointed on Board of Managers, Volun-

Pacific Ocean,

teer Soldiers' Home ...

876

appropriation for surveys of coasts of, under

Palmers River,

United States jurisdiction.. 756, 1433 citizens, etc., forbidden to hunt fur seals in

bridge authorized across, between Warren

waters of..

328 Pa and Barrington, R. I ... 300 lms,

· Pacific Ocean, Discovery of,

duty on.

36

foreign nations to be invited to exposition

Pamlico River, N. C.,

to celebrate four hundredth anniver-

appropriation for improvement of.

642, 938

sary of..

1454 preliminary examination of, to be made... 954

Packages, duty on metal, lacquered , etc..

22

Pamlico Sound, N. C., 32 appropriation for waterway to Beaufort

Packages ofImported Articles,

Inlet from..

642

country oforigin, and quantity of contents,

Pamphlets,

to be plainly marked on .

85 duty on

64

required before delivery.

85 on free list, in foreign languages..

74

punishment for false labels, etc..

86 Pamunkey River, Va.,

Packing Boxes and Shooks, duty on, empty ...
Paddy,

appropriation for improvement of.. 33 Pan American Bureau,
appropriation for expenses.

640,938 342, 1032

duty on.

35 Pan American Conference, Fourth,

Paducah, Ky., terms of court at .

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

1113

representation at..

203

Pagan River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of..

640

preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

for transporting delegates, etc. , to..

775

use ofArmy transportto convey representa-

tives to, authorized; expenses..

877

Pages,

Pan American Union (see also Bureau of

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives ........

182, 476, 1179

for Senate .

471, 1173

American Republics), appropriation for expenses.
for printing and binding for..

1032 1447

deficiency appropriation for House of Rep-

Panama,

resentatives..

128 appropriation for minister to..

for Senate .

127

for secretary of legation...

337; 1027 337, 1028

Pahute Indians,

details of Army officers under, permitted;

trust patents of two, dying without heirs

limit, etc....

324

canceled ..

858 Panama Canal (see also Isthmian Canal),

27

Painters' Knives,

bonds authorized for completion of, etc. 117

duty on. Paintings,

.27

denominations ..

117

interest at 3 per cent.

117

288

duty on oil or water color, not specially'

provided for....

70

to be exempt from taxation. disposal of; expenses.

117" 117

in existence more than twenty years.

81

authority for former issue repealed..

117

meaning ofterm under Tariff Act..

82 foreign nations to be invited to participate

Paintings on Glass, Pictorial, on free list, for presentation to institutions, etc.; exceptions....
Paints, duty on, artists' .

in expositionto celebrate opening of: 1454 President authorized to enter into cpn-

81

tracts for completion of...

130

Panama Canal Bonds,

16 not receivableassecurity for national-bank

enamel, made with varnish .

15

note circulation ..

1013

not specially provided for...

15

to be inserted in bonds ..

1013

Palatka, Fla., appropriation for public building .

Panama-Pacific International Exposition, 1379 foreign nations to be invited by President

acquiring site and erecting public building

to participate in .

1454

at, authorized....

684

conditions precedent.

1454

Palette Knives, duty on .

invitation to be extended to foreign nations

27

to assemble fleets for review at

Palings,

Hampton Roads, Va...

1289

duty on, wood ....

33 Panama-Pacific International Exposition Com-

Palisade National Forest, Idaho and Wyo.,

pany,



appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250 selection of site, and raising of $15,000,000

Palladium, on free list.

for exposition at SanFrancisco, Cal.,

76

required of.

1454

Palm, on free list, nuts and kernels .
" oil, and palm kernel oil....

issue of invitation to foreign nations to

77

participate when President is as-

77

Bured of.

1454

INDEX.

clxxvii

855888J85885851528558×1.

Panama, Panama,

Page. Paper-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for foreign hospitals..... 347, 1036 duty on, metal covered ..

Panama Railroad,

music..

appropriation for expenses, relocating.. 772, 1450

not specially provided for............

reimbursing, for marine or fire losses;

no insurance to be paid...

772

annual subsidy from not required.

772

pamphlets. parchment, and imitationparchment.. photographic, etc.

to carry no insurance...

1451

photographs..

to make no further payments on moneys

pictures..

appropriated for its use.

1451

playing cards.

no bond required for services, materials,

etc., to be furnished by.......

1452

post cards. pottery..

Pandering, D. C., punishment for inveigling female into

press boards or press paper... printed matter of parchment, etc.....

house of prostitution, etc....

833

printing, for books and newspapers, not

placing female in house of prostitution,

etc...

833

specially provided for..

1

additional from country imposing ex-

receiving money, etc., for causing illegal

cohabitation of female..

833

causing wife to live in prostitution, etc.. 833

detaining female in disorderly house, etc. , for debt therein contracted .... 833

Pants,

duty on, cotton, etc.....

48

Paper,

duty on, albums forphotographs, etc............... 64

articles photogelatin printed, not spe-

cially provided for...

64

articles of surface-coated, parchment,etc. 62

port duty on wood pulp, etc. roofing felt.... sensitized ....
sheathing . stereotype . surface-coated . tissue ...
typewriter. views of United States scenery, etc.,
lithographically printed, etc.. former rate effective until Oct. 1, 1909,
on previous orders..

bags of parchment, etc. basic, for sensitizing, etc.. bibulous.... blank books.
booklets, lithographically printed . decorated by hand, etc.
books, children's, lithographically
printed..

wrapping, not specially provided for..

writing, etc...

Paper Cigars and Cigarettes, 64 duty on.

63. Paper, Distinctive,

63 appropriation for expenses, United States

securities...

714, 1390

63

for national currency.

714, 1391

of all kinds, not specially provided for.. boxes ofsurface-coated, etc.

deficiency appropriation for national cur-

rency.

204

bristol board..

for United States securities..

204

buttons... calendars.

65 Paperfor Checks and Drafts, Treasury Department,

cardboard.

appropriation for.

497

cards, lithographically printed, etc.

deficiency appropriation for.

1293

charts ..

for Crane and Company..

777

cigar bands..

62 Paperfor Internal Revenue Stamps,

cigarette..

appropriation for, and freight.

713, 1390

cigars...

deficiency appropriation for. : .

777, 1292

copying. copying books, letter. crepe...

61 Paper Making,

62 appropriation for tests of plants and woods

62

for.

430, 753

cut or shaped for boxes. decalcomanias ...

63 Paper Stock,

on free list, crude, ' waste, etc..

78

embossed, etc., not lithographed, not

Papier- Mache,

specially provided for.

duty on boxes, surface coated.

64

envelopes.

.

buttons...

65

of parchment, etc. fashion periodicals, lithographically .

manufactures of, not specially provided

for....

70

88888888 888888 7888 88858 8J888I828 88*R

printed, etc...

63 Paraffin,

filter masse or filter stock.............

on free list..

78

filtering . flock-coated . gelatin coated.
grease- proof. hangings.. Jacquard loom designs on. labels.. letter
lithographically printed pictures, labels, etc..
manifold .
manufactures of, not specially provided for...
maps..... masks.......

62 Paragould, Ark.,

62 appropriation for public building..........

1379

62 Paraguay and Uruguay,

appropriation for minister to..

337, 1027

for secretary of legation..

338, 1028

63 Paranitranilin,

62 on free list..

.74

Parasol Ribs and Stretchers,

duty on iron, etc..

29

62 Parasols,

63 duty on.

71

sticks for.

71

64 on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for..

81

64 Parchment,

70 on free list.

78

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11--105

clxxviii

INDEX .

Parchment Paper,

Page

duty on, and imitation..

62

Pardons, etc.,

power of President not impaired by law for .

parole of prisoners .

821

Parian Ware,

duty on decorated, etc.

18

not decorated, etc..

18

Parian, Works in,

Parole, United States Prisoners- Continued.
parole officers authorized at prisons; duties, pay, etc ...
duties of marshals...
gratuities, etc., to paroled prisoners.... convicts in State institutions released un-
der State laws; expenses, etc.... approval of Attorney General . pardoning power, etc., not affected .....

Page.
820 820 820
821 821 821

on free list, by societies, etc., for exhibition, not for sale; conditions ..
produced more than 100 years before importation...
Paris Green (see also Insecticide Act), duty on .

Paroquet, Ark., 81 bridgeauthorized across Black River, near. 198

Parsley Seed,

82 duty on .

37

Parsnip Seed,

16 duty on.

37

Paris, Ill.,

Parsons, John M., ·

.deficiency appropriation for public build-

deficiency appropriation for contested-

ing..

1293 1 election expenses.......

1317

Paris, Tex.,

Partridge Wood,

appropriation for public building..

1379 on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrellas,

enlargement of public building at, au-

canes, etc....

81

thorized..

680 Pasadena, Cal.,

terms of court at. ...

1126 construction of public building authorized

Paris White,

at; cost..

695

duty on.

15

contracts authorized..

695

Park City, Utah,

Pascagoula River; Miss.,

appropriation for public building at..

1379 appropriation for improvement of; chan-

limit of cost increased, public building... 679

nel in Dog River...

647

Park Place NW., D. C.,

for improvement of; maintenance

647

condemnation proceedings for extension

preliminary examination of mouth of, to

. of..

199

be made .

672

appropriation for.

200 Pass Cavallo, Tex.,.

Park Road NW., D. C.,

appropriation for improvement of channel

purchase of land for widening.

888

to Port Lavaca from.......

649

appropriation for..........

888 Pass Manchac, La.,

Parker, Ariz.,

appropriation for improvement of................... 647 .

dam authorized across Colorado River,

Passaic, N. J.,

near.

1081 appropriation for public building ..... 1379

Parker, Cynthia Ann,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

removal, etc., of body from Texas, to be

thorized..

690

paid fromappropriation for monument. 797 Passaic River, N. J.,

Parkersburg, W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of Newark

appropriation for public building...

1379

Bay and..

729.1406

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

692

terms of court at .

1014, 1129

for improvement of, above Montclair and Greenwood Lake Railroad bridge... 936
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673

· Parkin, Ark., bridge_authorized across Saint Francis River near.

Passamaquoddy Bay, International Boundary
Line, 199 appropriation for expenses, otc. , settlement

Parking Commission, D. C.,

of...

344

appropriation for expenses. Parks, D. C.,

.... 389, 980 expenses of marking boundary, to be paid from arbitration appropriation............. 775

appropriation for care and improvement

Passes, Interstate Commerce,

of..

725, 1402 issue by carriers prohibited.

546

Parks, National (see National Parks).

exceptions; interchango to officials and

Parks, Public,

families, etc.

546

lands granted to towns in Colorado for.... 459 Parliamentary Union for Promoting Inter-.

between telegraph, etc., and other car-

riers .....

546

national Arbitration,

employees and families defined .

546

appropriation for contribution to Bureau.. 345

penalty forgiving or receiving..

547

Parole, D. C.,

jurisdiction....

547

release of juvenile offenders committed to

Paste,

Girls' Reform School, D. C........ 300 duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

Parole Officers,

vided for......

21

appointment at penitentiaries ; duties, pay,

Pastels,

etc.

820 duty on, not specially provided for......

70

Parole, United States Prisoners,

on free list, in existence more than twenty

release of convicts for good conduct...... 819

years ....

81

board at penitentiaries to consider applica-

Pastes,

tion ; composition, etc ..

819 duty on, indigo ..

14

at other prisons .

819

licorice..

14

may authorize release ; conditions, etc.. 819 Patapsco River, Md.,

approval of Attorney General ....

820 appropriation for improvement of Balti-

arrest on violations; duties of officers ..... 820

more harbor..

639

hearing by board, revoking parole, etc.. 820 Patent Leather,

sentence not diminished..

820 duty on .

68

INDEX ..

clxxix

Patent Office Gazette,

Page. Pay Department, Army,

Page.

appropriation for printing and binding. 768, 1446 appropriation for pay of the Army..... 243, 1037

Patent Office, Interior Department,

for pay of officers; longevity ... ... 248, 1042

appropriation for Commissioner, assistants,

Pay, Marine Corps,

examiners, etc....

514, 1216 appropriation for officers...

examiners of trade-marks and designs. 1217

for enlisted men.....

624, 1284 624, 1284

for professional and scientific books,

deficiency appropriation for..

221,

etc..

515, 1217

225, 791, 809, 813, 1322, 1326

for weekly issue of patents, drawings,

etc..

515, 1217

for investigations, etc...

515, 1217

for expenses International Bureau,

Berne .

515, 1217

Pay, Navy, appropriation for... for miscellaneous.. for contingent..
deficiency appropriation for.

605, 1265 606, 1266 607, 1267
221,

for removing models to House or Senate

Office Buildings...

516

225, 791, 792, 809, 813, 1302, 1322, 1326

for miscellaneous .

221 ,

for printing weekly issue of patents,

etc....

768, 1446

791, 792, 809, 813, 1302, 1303, 1303, 1322, 1326 formileage toofficers; disallowed accounts 1303

for printing, etc., Official Gazette.... 768, 1446 Payette, Idaho,

deficiency appropriation for rent, etc., new

bridge authorized across Snake River at.. 1351

quarters for model exhibit.... 123, 795 Payette National Forest, Idaho,

for photolithographing..

226 appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250-

for library....

-810 Paymaster-General's Office, War Department,

part of printing allotment, 1911, made.

appropriation for clerks, etc.....

503, 1205

available for Interstate Commerce

Paymasters' Clerks and Messengers, Army,

Commission, and Executive Office.. 1448 appropriation for pay..

Patent Rights Laus,

for travel expenses..

249,1043 249,1043

jurisdiction of United States courts ex-

pay and allowances for paymasters' clerks

clusive of States, in cases under.... 1161

established ..

1044

Patents, caveats abolished..
fee.....

retirement, etc.

1044

884433 Paymasters' Clerks, Navy, entitled to pay, allowances, and retirement

   8  

unlicensed use by United States of inven-

accorded warrant officers.....

tions.....

851 Peace, Commission on Universal,

compensationsecured by suit in Court of

Claims.....

851

appointment authorized, scope, etc.....

885

limit to expenditures; report....

885

no jurisdiction if article heretofore

Peace Monument, D. C.,

used, etc.. defenses....

851 851 construction of avenue to Union Station,

authorized from...

738

patents by employees of the Govern-

Peach Kernels,

ment, etc., excluded ....

852 duty on..

38

Patents, Commissioner of,

Peaches,

appropriation for assistant, examiners, etc..

7 duty ongreen or ripe.....

37

514, 121 Peanuts,

Patterson,,J. C.,

duty on .

38

deficiencyappropriation for contested-elec-

Pear,

tion expenses, House of Representá-

tives....

806

duty on stocks, etc., of.....

37

Patuxent River, Md.,
appropriation for surveys, etc., as a source of water supply, District of Colum-

Pearing, John, deficiency appropriation for payments to.. 779
Pearl Beads, Imitation,

bia..

983 duty on..

64 65

Paulina National Forest, Oreg.,
appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1250 Paupers, D. C.,
appropriation for transportation of...... 411, 1002

Pearl Buttons, duty on.
Pearl Harbor Naval Station, Hawaii, appropriation for dredging..

616, 1276

Paupers, etc., Alien, excluded admission..

for dry dock; limit of costincreased . 616, 1276

263

for yard development..

616, 1276

. Paving Posts,

for floating crane..

616

duty on. Paving Tiles,
duty on marble or onyx....

33

capacity and limit of cost increased.. 1276

for quarters, shops, etc...

1276

21

for naval hospital.

1276

Pawcatuck River, R. I. and Conn.,

deficiency appropriation for dredging chan-

appropriation for improvement of....

633

nel entrance..

211

Pawnee Indians, Okla.,

Pearl Hardening,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 280, 1069 duty on..

18

deficiency appropriation for support of

Pearl, Mother of,

schools..

226, 811 duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

Pawtucket River, R. I.,

vided for...

70

onfree list, and shells in natural state....

78

appropriation for improvement of....

934

Pay, Army,

Pearl River Customs Collection District,Miss.,

appropriation for...

243, 1037 Scranton, Miss. , made subport of entry.. 11

deficiency appropriation for...

220, Pearl River, Miss.,

225,809, 1300, 1321, 1326 appropriation for improvement of, below

readjustment, etc., of stoppages of, on account of service of officers in exer- ·
cise of higher command between

Rockport.....

647,942

for improvement of, between Edinburg

and Jackson..

647

April 26, 1898, and March 18, 1907.. 1039 bridge authorized across, in Mississippi.... 179

clxxx

INDEX .

88888

R333

Pearls,

Page

duty on artificial, etc...

68

drilled or undrilled , not set or strung.... 68

Pears,

duty on, green or ripe.

37

Peary, Civil Engineer Robert E., Navy, to be placed on retired list as rear-admiral... 1346

tendered thanks of Congress for Arctic ex-

plorations......

1346

Peas,

duty on, dried, not specially provided for. 36

green....

36

in packages, etc.

36

prepared, etc.

36

seed ,.

36

split..

36

Peat Moss,

duty on

70

Pebble Lenses,

duty on ..

20

Pebbles, on free list, Brazilian, unwrought........................ .. 74
Pecos National Forest, N. Mex.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 1250, 4287 Peekskill, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 635, 935

Peel, Orange and Lemon,

on free list, not preserved, etc..

78

Pen and Ink Drawings,

duty on, not specially provided for..................

70

Penalties (see Crimes and Misdemeanors).

Penalties under Federal Laws,

jurisdiction of United States courts exclu-

sive of State, in suits for...

1161

Penalty Franks, Official, census mail matter entitled to use of..................... 10

Pencils,

duty on, hair.

65

lead, etc.

70

leads for..

Blate..

70

Pendd'Oreille River,

bridge authorized across, in Box Canyon,

Wash ....

179

Pend Oreille National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

Pendleton, Oreg.,

appropriation for public building..

1379

terms of court at .

1122

Penholders, etc.,

duty on .

31

combination

31

Penitentiaries, United States, appropriation for construction, worth, Kans..
Atlanta, Ga..... for maintenance..

Leaven-
747, 1423 747, 1423 751, 1427

deficiency appropriation for maintenance,

Leavenworth, Kans.....

215

release of prisoners on parole from; condi-

tions..

819

Penknives,

duty on .

26

Penn Yan, N. Y., appropriation for public building....................... 1379

Pennsylvania,

deficiency appropriation for militia, claims

of...

1321

assigned to third judicial circuit..

1131

department of fisheries granted use of

Presque Isle peninsula for fish hatch-

ery..

202

to deposit contributive share for improving

Delaware River at mouth of the

Neversink..

637

Pennsylvania Eastern Judicial District,
additional judge allowed for.. counties composing.. terms of court..

Page. 1087 1123 1123

Pennsylvania Middle Judicial District, counties composing.. terms of court..

1123 1123

"Pennsylvania," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs..

621

Pennsylvania Western Judicial District,
additional judge allowed for... counties composing.. terms of court...

1087 1123 1123

Pens,

duty on, fountain....

31

gold ...

31

metallic, except gold .

31

stylographic .

31

Pensacola andSouthwestern Railroad Company,

may bridge Perdido Bay, Cummings Point,

Fla., to Lillian, Ala..

415

Pensacola Customs District, Fla.,

Saint Andrews Bay made a subport of

entry in..

1080

Saint Joseph Bay transferred to Apalachi-

cola district from ...

897

Pensacola, Fla.,

appropriation for public works, navy yard. 616

for improvement of harbor.....

644, 941

for public building..

1379

bridges authorized across Escambia Bay,

Choctawhatchee and Apalachicola

Rivers, Fla., between RiverJunction

and..

233

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

679

terms of court at.

1108

Pensacola, Mobile and New Orleans Railway

Company, may bridge Mobile River, Mobile, Ala.......... 958

former act repealed....

958

Pensauken Creek, N. J.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673

Pension Agents,

appropriation for salaries...............

843, 1085

for clerk hire; apportionment..........

843, 1085

for stationery, etc..

843, 1085

Pension Appeals, Board of, appropriation for..
· vacancies not to be filled . duties of, transferred to Office of Assistant
Attorney-General for Interior De-
partment.

511 511
1214

Pension Office, Interior Department,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc....

513, 1216

for per diem special examiners.

514, 1216

for installing card-index system.. 514, 1216

for additional special examiners... 514, 1216

for special repairs ....

737

for extending Department heating plant

to..

737

for electric elevators..

737

deficiency appropriation for repair of

rooms .

1305

for card-index system, etc....

1306

Pensions,

appropriation for Army and Navy. Navy from naval fund...

842, 1085 843, 1085

separate accounts required.... 843, 1085

for fees, etc., examining surgeons.... 843, 1085

for salaries of agents.

843, 1085

for clerk hire; apportionment..

843, 1085

for stationery, etc..

843, 1085

INDEX .

clxxxi

1808

Pensions Continued. appropriation for rent

Page Permanent Naval Supply Fund, 843 abolished; transfer of balances..

Page. 1279

plan for simplifying payments, to be

amount to general account ofadvances.. 1279

reported ...

1085 Permissible Marks on Mail Matter ofThird and

for examination, etc. , of agencies....

843

Fourth Classes,

oaths may be administered by rural

use of "Please do not open until Christ-

delivery carriers; fees..

843

mas" allowed....

1340

deficiency appropriation for Army.... 223, 1324 Perry, Iowa,

for Army and Navy...

1310 appropriation for public building..

1379

for rent, New York agency.

1313 acquiringsite and erecting public building

private laws correcting military or naval

at, authorized.....

685

records not to preclude granting of,

subsequent to their enactment...... 1458

Pensions, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks, etc.. 513, 1216

to report plan for simplifying payment of

pensions..

1085

Perry, Jesse G.,

deficiency appropriation for......................

1315

Perry's Victory on Lake Erie,

appropriation for memorial, etc., centen-

nial celebration of, on Put-in-Bay,

Ohio......

1081

Pentwater, Mich,,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 655, 955

Peony Bulbs,

duty on....

37

commission authorized to represent Na-

tional Government.

1081

no further obligation incurred.

1081

disbursement by centennial commission.. 1081

People's Gas and Electric Company, deficiency appropriation for..

contingent upon contributionsby States. 1081 802 Persia,

Peoria, Ill.,

terms of court at....

1110

Pepper, on free list, black or white, unground . : .. 79

Pepper, Red, or Cayenne,

duty on.

39

appropriation for minister to........... 337, 1027

for secretary of legation....

338, 1028

for interpreter to legation and consulate-

general...

338, 1029

for.interpreters and guards, consulates

in.....

346, 1035

Pepper Seed,

duty on.

37

Pepperells Cove, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 631,933

Peppermint,

duty on; oil

14

Percussion Caps,

duty on.

66

Perdido Bay,

bridge authorized across, Cummings Point,

Fla., to Lillian, Ala.............

415

Peremptory Challenges,

allowed in United States courts...

1166

Perfumery,

duty on, containing alcohol..

16

not containing alcohol.........

16.

floral waters...

16

Periodicals,.

on free list; restriction....

77

special regulation for free entry of serial,

on one declaration ....

92

Perique Tobacco, Domestic,

sales in bulk from one manufacturer to an-

other, or for export, permitted with-

out paying tax...

109

Perishable Articles,

disposal of, not affected by tariff act.

101

Perishable Articles, Fruit, etc.,

shortage or nonimportation caused by dam-

age, etc..

102

regulations for allowance.

102

proof, etc., required...

102

damage allowance forbidden...

102

abandonment allowed if over 10 per cent

of invoice ..

102

goods without market value included ... 102

examination of packages by importer.... 102

delivery to customs officials...

102

condemnation of, by health officers..

102

examination, etc., by customs officials.. 103

Perkins, J.B., latea Representativein Congress, deficiency appropriation for widow of. ... 805

Permanent Indefinite Appropriation,

established for refunding excess customs

charges..

103

indefinite, for parting and refining bullion

repealed..

1292

repealed, shipping commissioners, etc..... 773

Steamboat Inspection Service.....

773

Persian Berries,

duty on extract of.......

13

Personal Effects,

accompanying passenger admitted without

certified invoice..

92

on free list, brought from abroad by resi-

dents returning; limit..

of citizens dying abroad....

78

· of citizens, taken abroad and returned.. 80

of persons arriving in United States; re-

striction ...

80

Personal Tax Board, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries.. Persons in Transit,

376, 968

baggage may be retained, etc., without

paying duty....

104

Persons or Familiesfrom Foreign Countries,

on free list, books, household effects, etc.,

of...

74

Perth Amboy, N. J.,

appropriation for public building..

1879

limit of cost increased, public building. 678

Peru, Ind.,

appropriation for public building...... 706, 1379 Petaluma Creek, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 662, 950

Petoskey, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 655

construction of public building authorized

at.

682

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor....

955

Petroleum,

on free list, crude or refined...

78

patents for mineral entries not to be denied

-

solely because assigned before dis-

covery of...

1015

Pettis County, Mo.,

title of United States to certain lands in,

released to George R. Shelley...... 1079

Pewter,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for......

33

on free list, old, fit only to be remanufac-

tured..

78

Phelix, Louiza, Indian Allottee,

trust patent in Wisconsin made to, can-

celed ....

833

clxxxii

INDEX .

Phenol, on free list..

Page. 74

Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad Company,

directed to change grade crossing on Q

Street NE., D. C

199

to construct railroad siding to navy-yard,

Washington, D. C. , etc ....

615

Philadelphia, Pa., appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice ...

496, 1199

for mint at.

498, 1200

for naval home..

610, 1270

for navy-yard, public works ..

615, 1275

for marine officers' quarters, navy-yard.. 618

for public building, post-office and court-

house, repairs...

706

immigration station pier, limit of cost in-

creased, etc....

1442

term of circuit court of appeals at..

1132

terms of district court at ..

1123

Philippi, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building..

1379

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

692

terms of court at; room required ... 1014, 1129

Philippine Commission, all internal-revenue collections to be allot-

ted and paid out by...

85

Philippine Insurrection,

discharges in true name allowed to minors,

serving under assumed ................

824

Philippine Islands, appropriation for pay of Resident Commis-

sioners.. for expenses.. for shelter of troops in...

473, 1175 473, 1176 257, 1052

restriction on amount for officers' quar-

ters....

257, 1052

for care of insane Filipino soldiers at asy-

lums in...

259, 1055

for contingencies, Engineer Department,

Army....

260, 1056

for relief of shipwrecked American sea-

men in....

346, 1036

for mail equipments for..

362, 1334

for seacoast batteries..

598, 1343

contracts authorized for additional.... 598

for installation of electric plants for de-

fenses....

598, 1343

for harbor searchlights..

598

for preservation, repair, etc., fortifica-

tions..

598, 1343

for preservation, repair, etc., torpedo

structures...

1343

for supplies, etc., batteries .................... 598, 1343

for land defenses...

1343

for replacing barracks and quarters de-

stroyed by typhoon.....

721

for quarters, seacoast artillery in. 721, 1398

for electric plant, Corregidor Island .. 1398 for arrears of pay, etc., war in........ 737, 1413´

deficiency appropriation for naval equip-

ment plant.....

810

customs tariff schedules not applicable to. 11

duty on articles coming from..

83

products excepted...

83

special provisions as to rice, sugar, tobacco, and cigars......
minimum amount of sugar admitted free.. tobacco and cigars...
sugar and tobacco imported into, from for-

eign countries to pay not less than

United States duties...

84

preference given small producers ofsugarto

right to free entry....

84

= ** ***

Philippine Islands-Continued.

Page.

articles from United States admitted into,

free of duty..

84

free of duty articles to and from United

States and, to have through bills of

lading...

84

transshipment allowed if in original

packages...

84

repacking permitted in cases of acci-

dent, etc.; conditions..

84

articles shipped to United States and ad-

mitted free, exempt from export

duties in..

84

internal-revenue tax to be paid on articles

imported into United States from... 84

exempt from internal-revenue tax in..

84

internal- revenue tax to be paid in, on articles imported from United States... 84
exempt from internal-revenue tax in

United States ...

85

articles imported from countries other than

United States to pay regular internal-

revenue tax....

85

18 18 18

all internal-revenue taxes collected in, to be

paid into insular treasury.

85

allotment, etc., to be by Philippine Com-

mission ..

85

Philippine Islands, Civil Government in,

members of assembly to hold office until

October 16, 1912

910

successors to serve four years hereafter 467, 910 Resident Commissioners to hold office until

successors qualify.

910

successors to serve until March 4, 1913 .. 910

thereafter to hold office for four

years..

467,910

to have stationery allowance, clerk hire,

and franking privilege of Represent-

atives.....

467, 910

inconsistent laws repealed..

910

jurisdiction of Supreme Court to review, etc., judgments of supreme court of. 1158

terms of supreme court at Baguio author-

ized ...

877

Philippine Scouts,

appropriation for pay of officers; longev-

ity.....

250, 1044

for pay of enlisted men; longevity... 250, 1044

Philippine Tariffof1909,

in force 60 days after passage..

130

articles subject to duty.

130

textiles, computation of threads..

130

surtaxes on textiles.....

131

on ad valorem rates..

131

on admixtures of two materials; cotton.. 131

other vegetable fibers..

131

wool or hair...

132

on admixtures of more than two materials 132

silk textiles determined...

132

pile fabrics, and knitted and netted stuffs

of mixed materials....

132

ribbons, galloons, etc., of mixed materials. 133

brochés, surtax on...

133

embroideries, surtax on...

133

metallic thread materials, surtax on..

133

textiles, made-up articles, surtax on....

133

wearing apparel, etc., surtax on..

133

articles not enumerated, of two or more

materials..

134

meaning of "component material of chief

value' .

134

assessment of highest of two or more

rates..

134

classification by customs officers ....... 134

salvage from wrecked foreign vessels sub-

ject to duty....

134

INDEX .

clxxxiii

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.
receptacles, packages, and packing. · prohibited importations; dynamite, gun-
powder, firearms, etc.; exception ... obscene books, etc..... gambling devices, etc.. falsely marked gold or silver articles.
articles violating pure-food law.. lottery tickets, etc.. opium; exception... opium pipes..... abbreviations employed.
definitions; "pharmaceutical product" . "proprietary remedies" . "the same," in reference to paragraphs ..

Page. 134
135 136 136 136 136 136 136 136 136 136. 136 136

duties to be paid in Philippine currency

or United States equivalent....

136

metric system continued; equivalents.

137

rates of duties; sanitary articles..

137

maximum ad valorem....

137

foreign articles reimported..

137

rates: CLASS I. STONES, EARTHS, GLASS,

AND CERAMIC PRODUCTS .

137

CLASS II. COAL, SCHISTS, BITUMENS,

AND DERIVATIVES THEREOF...

140

CLASS III. METALS AND MANUFACTURES

THEREOF...

140

CLASS IV. SUBSTANCES EMPLOYED IN

PHARMACY, AND CHEMICAL INDUS-

TRIES; DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PIG-

MENTS, AND VARNISHES..

144

CLASS V. COTTON AND MANUFACTURES

THEREOF...

147

CLASS VI. MANUFACTURES OF HEMP,

FLAX, ALOE, JUTE, and VEGETABE

FIBERS NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED

FOR..

150

CLASS VII. WOOL, BRISTLES, HAIR, AND ·

MANUFACTURES THEREOF..

153

CLASS VIII. SILK AND MANUFACTURES

THEREOF...

153

CLASS IX. PAPER and MANUFACTURES

THEREOF..

153

CLASS X. WOOD AND OTHER MATERIALS, AND MANUFACTURES THEREOF... 154

CLASS XI. ANDIALS AND ANIMAL PROD-

UCTS, AND WASTES...

156

CLASS XII. INSTRUMENTS , APPARATUS,

MACHINERY, VEHICLES, AND Boats. 157

CLASS XIII. ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES . 159

CLASS XIV. MISCELLANEOUS.

165

FREE LIST....

168

FREE, SUBJECT TO EXPRESS CONDITIONS.. 170

FREE UPON COMPLIANCE WITH CORRE-

SPONDING REGULATIONS..

172

FREE, United States articles, receiving no

drawbacks, on through bills of lad-

ing, if in original packing.

173

allowance for casualty, etc..

173

export duties..

173

wharfage.....

174

consignee deemed owner of imports.

174

holder of bill of lading deemed..

174

underwriter recognized as..

174

invoices, contents of...

174

required for all imports..

174

acceptance of statement in form of.... 174

authentication by American consular

officer....

175

by customs officer, if from United

States.

175

declaration to accompany...

175

report of fraudulent invoices to insular

coliector of customs...

176

customs inspection of United States Gov-

ernment vessels.....

176

Philippine Tariffof1909-Continued. drawback on fuel used by vessels... on articles manufactured of imported materials or similar domestic materials...
regulations.... not allowed on articles to United States
if on free list there.... admission of containers under bond for ex-
portation, etc.. collection of internal-revenue tax on arti-
cles other than from United States.. enforcement of Act by insular, collector of
customs..
jurisdiction of Philippine courts in trademarks cases.
repeal of inconsistent decrees, laws, etc... pending suits, etc., not affected ..
DUTIABLE .ARTICLES.

Page. 176
176 176
177 177 177
177
177 178 178

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.]

. acids, inorganic.......

68, 145

organic....

69,145

adding machines, etc.

185,157

aerial machines, and parts.

198,158

alabaster...

1,137

albumens..

.... 88,147

albums of lithographs, etc..

.153, 154

alcohol....

257,164

alkalies, caustic.......

70,145

alkaloids, and their salts ................................................... 76,146

allspice...

· 247,163

aloe (see hemp).

alpargatas...

177,156

aluminum, and alloys, bars, sheets, etc .. 50,143

other articles...

50, 148

amber......

277,165

imitations..

278,165

ammonia, anhydrous..

71, 145

aqua...

71, 145

ammonium, sulphate of.

72, 145

ammunition, fixed..

89, 147

animal, hair (see wool). integuments and intestines.. oils and fats.....

180, 157 82,146

products, crude, medicinal.
wastes and by-products .. wax..

... 57,144 181,157 83, 146.

animals, live.. stuffed or mounted..
for wearing apparel, or toilet. anvils..... apparatus, common mechanical .

172, 156 286, 166 287,166 36, 142 191, 158

scientific, etc.. appliances, electric . aqua ammonia...

800, 168 190, 157
71, 145

argols ...

74, 146

articles, edible..

273, 165

exported, repairs on..

304, 168

not specified, not advanced.

803, 168

advanced but not manufactured ... 303, 168

manufactured..

303, 168

artificial flowers, fruits, etc......

289, 166

teeth, eyes, limbs, etc..

279, 166

stone...

2,137

asbestos...

4, 138

aseptic and antiseptic surgical dressings. 80, 146

asphaltums...

22, 140

asses.

168, 156

astronomical appliances and apparatus.. 800, 168

automobiles, and parts..

195, 158

axle grease...

22, 140

axles, railway car, iron or steel..

81, 141

bacon, smoked, etc...

204, 159

bagatelle tables, etc....

164, 155

clxxxiv

INDEX .

Philippine Tariffof1909--Continued.

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued .

DUTIABLE ARTICLES- Continued.

(Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

bagging and baling, hemp, etc ..... balloons, and parts... balls, billiard, etc..
for field sports.. bamboo, crude, and manufactures..
steel....
barium, oxide and hydroxide of.. barks, crude, not edible..
dyeing and tanning..... barley....
flour.... bars, aluminum.
cast-iron..
copper.. lead . nickel..

120,121 , 151 198, 158 164, 155 294, 167 167, 155 28, 141 70, 145 55, 144 64, 145 216, 161 216, 161 50, 143 26, 141 46, 143 52, 144 -50, 143

tin .. wrought iron or steel.. zinc ..
barytes.. bas-reliefs, ceramic...
baseball bats, balls, etc.. bathrobes, cotton pile fabrics.. batting, cotton.. beams, cast-iron..
wrought iron or steel.. beans, edible, dried .........
not edible, crude... bedspreads, etc., cotton lace.. belting, machine... bent-wood furniture.. berries, crude, not edible.. beverages, compounded spirituous.
malt... nonalcoholic...
bicycles, and parts.... billiard tables, etc..
biographs... birds, live....
nests, edible .. stuffed or mounted..
for wearing apparel or toilet.. biscuit...
bisque wares.. bitters, spirituous.. bitumens... bituminous paints..
blackberry brandy. bladders.. blank books..
blankets, cotton. blondes, cotton.. boards, common wood.
fine wood.. boats... boilers, steam.. bolts, iron or steel . bone, and imitations..
char... bonnets, other than straw, etc.
straw, chip, etc.. books and albums of lithographs, etc..
books, printed.... boot and shoe findings, common leather.
enamel, etc.. fine leather...

51 , 143 28, 141 52, 144 58, 144 11, 138 294, 167 104, 149 96, 147 26, 141 28, 141 226, 161 55, 144 107, 149 192, 158 160, 155 55, 144 260, 164 264, 164 265, 165 196, 158 164, 155 183, 157
173, 156 223, 161 286, 166 287, 166 220, 161
11, 138 260, 164
22, 140 59, 145 259, 164 180, 157 151, 154 102, 149 107, 149 155, 154 156, 154 200, 159 191, 158 37, 142 278, 165 86, 147 297, 167 296, 167
153, 154 152, 154
175, 156 175, 156 175, 156

boot straps. cotton tape . hemp, etc., tape...
boots... boric acid.
boron..

·111, 150 129, 152 .: 177, 156
68, 145 ... 67, 145

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

bort....

13, 138

bottles, earthenware, etc. glass...
siphon.. bovine animals.

11, 138 15, 139 15, 139 169, 156

bowling alleys, and parts.. buckles, iron or steel... buds, crude drugs.......... bulbous roots. crude drugs.

164, 155 41, 142 55, 144 55, 144

bulbs, crude drugs..... bulls..

55, 144 169, 156

bungs, wood.

158, 154

Burgundy pitch. butter...
fruit..
imitation.. butterine..

54, 144 271, 165 234, 162 272, 165 272, 165

button rings and fasteners.. buttons..
brads..

275, 165 280, 166
89, 142

braids, cotton.
hemp, etc. straw, for hats. bread ...

111, 150 129, 152 167, 155 220, 161

brake-shoes, etc. , railway car, ironorsteel. 31 , 141

bran..

225, 161

brandy... bricks, clay, and cement..

258, 164 9, 138

bridles, cotton.... ribbons or bands for..

118, 150 114, 150

hemp, etc... ribbons or bands for........

131, 152 132, 152

bristles, and manufactures..
bristol board, plain, not printed.. manufactures...

137, 153 148, 153 148, 153

printed, lithographed, etc.. manufactures...
bromine .....

149, 154 149 , 154
67, 145

broomcorn, crude, and manufactures... 167, 155

broths, canned or potted ..

209, 160

cables, copper, electric.. cacao, and cacao butter.. cakes...
calcimine substances, dry . liquid or paste.....
calcium hypochlorite.. calves, sucking.. cameras, etc.

47, 143 245, 163 221, 161
58, 144 59, 145 72, 145 169, 156 299, 167

candies..

241, 162

candles, wax and paraffin. canes, sticks for walking. canned meats, common.
delicatessen, etc... soups and broths... caoutchouc .... stuffs, cotton, etc.

83, 146 167, 155
206, 160 '208, 160 209, 160 290, 167 115, 150

hemp, etc...
caps, headgear.. carbolic acid..

... 138, 152 298, 167 69, 145

carbolineum, etc..

22, 140

carbon dioxide....

68, 145

carbonic acid, liquid. carborundum paper.
wheels..

68, 145 147, 153
3, 137

carboys, glass. cardboard, plain, not printed..
manufactures...

15, 139 148, 153 148, 153

-printed, lithographed, etc. manufactures..

149, 154 149, 154

carpeting, cotton ..

108, 149

hemp, etc.

127, 152

INDEX .

clxxxv

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

Philippine Tariffof1909--Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

[Heavy-faced figures Indicate paragraph.] Page

carton pierre . cartridges.. carts .
wooden parts for.
' cash registers, and parts.. casks, etc., wood....

154, 154 89, 147
194, 158 199, 159 186, 157 159, 154

copper and alloys, sheets ..

46, 143 .

wire..

47, 143

covered, etc., for electrical uses.... 47, 143

covered with silk..

47, 143

gauze, etc ..

47, 143

manufactures..

47, 143

cast iron (articles of malleable, dutiable as

wrought iron)

not polished, turned or coated bars, etc. 26, 141

other.

27, 141

copra.... copying books. coral..
imitation

53, 144 151, 154 .:. 277, 165 278, 165

catsup.. cedar, rough-hewn, etc ..

253, 164 155, 154

celluloid, and imitations...

278, 165

cement, bricks, squares, tiles, and pipes.. 9; 138

hydraulic..

6, 138

ceramic ware..

11, 138

cordage, cotton.. hemp, etc.
cordials . cords, hemp, etc. cork.....
corn ...

94, 147 ... 118, 150
260, 164. 118, 150 166, 155 217, 161

cereals, prepared for table use . chains, wrought iron or steel.. chairs, barbers' and dentists'

218, 161 85, 142
163, 155

meal.. for table use..
cornstarch.

217, 161 218, 161 218, 161

chalcedony, unmounted . chalk.
manufactures...
champagne.. charcoal... cheese, and imitation...
chemical products, compounds, ments .
chewing gum.

18, 138 6, 138 8,138
261, 164 165, 155 .: 270, 165
and ele75, 146
241, 162

corset laces, cotton. hemp, etc.
corticine .. cosmetics .
cotton fishing nets. textiles, plain.. figured, etc.. piqués blankets .

112, 150 180, 152 284, 166
85, 146 94, 147 97-98, 147, 148 99-100, 148 101, 149 102, 149

chicory .. China clay.

248, 163 6, 138

pile fabrics . bath robes and towels..

108, 149 104, 149

Chinese medicines. chocolate....

78, 146 246, 163

knitted goods.......... tulles ..

105, 149 106, 149

Christmas tree decorations, etc.

293, 167

laces and blondes .

107, 149

chronometers, and parts . ciders.....

184, 157 264, 164

carpeting.... tapestries...

108, 149 109, 150

cigarette paper ... cigars, cigarettes, and cheroots .
cinches, cotton.... ribbons or bands for.
hemp, etc... ribbons or bands for .

150, 154 801, 168 113, 150 114, 150 131, 152 132, 152

lampwicks.. trimmings, ribbons, etc.. shoe and corset laces...
cinches, saddle girths; etc. ribbons or bands for.
waterproof and elastic stuffs.

110, 150 111, 150 112, 150 113, 150 114, 150 115, 150

cinematographs .....

183, 157

other manufactures ..

116, 150

cinnamon..

247, 163

threads, coarse, for sails, etc.

94, 147

clam chowder, canned or potted.. clams, fresh.

209, 160 214, 160

mercerized .... nets, hammocks, etc....

93, 147 95, 147

clays....
bricks, squares, tiles, and pipes ... manufactures...

6, 138 9, 138 12, 138

sewing, etc.. twine for cordage, etc. yarns, felts, etc., of..

93, 147 94, 147 96, 147

clocks, and parts.... cloth (see textiles).

184, 157

in hanks, etc.... mercerized.....

92, 147 93, 147

cloves..... coal.....

247, 163 21, 140

sewing, etc. waste ..

98, 147 91, 147

cochineal.. cocktails . cocoanuts.

64, 145 260, 164 .: 53, 144

couplings, car, iron or steel railway . COWB .
crackers, edible..

81, 141 169, 156 220, 161

codfish, salted or dried..
in cans, etc... coffee . coke.....
colophony . colors, chemical dye...
coal.. columns, cast-iron..

211, 160 212 ,.160 242, 163
21, 140 54, 144 64, 145 64, .145 26, 141

· crayons, charcoal, etc. cream of tartar...
creams, compounded
pure... cricket bats, balls, etc... crochet hooks... croquet sets.. crucible steel articles..

68, 145 74, 146 268, 165 267, 165 294, 167 275, 165 294, 167 28, 141

comptographs........... confectionery .

185, 157 crucibles, earthenware, etc.. 241, 162 crossties, iron or steel...

11, 138 28, 141

confetti, paper..

148, 153

containers of merchandise, glass..

15, 139.

copper and alloys, bars..

46, 143

lumps.... manufactures............... ....................

....... 46, 143 ... 48, 143

pipes .......

46, 143

crystal (see glass). cupels, earthenware, etc.. curry powder.... curtains, cotton lace....
cutlery... cyclometers...

11, 138 252, 163 107, 149 42, 142 184, 157

clxxxvi

INDEX.

Philippine Tariff of1909- Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES- Continued.

[Heavy-faced figures Indicate paragraph.] Page

delicatessen articles, meats, game, etc .. 208, 160

demijohns, glass.....

15, 139

denaturant mixtures..

74, 146

designs, painted, etc., for industrial uses 153, 154

dextrin ..

87, 147

diamond dust.

13, 138

dishes, earthenware, etc ..

11, 138

diving suits.... downs..

191 , 158 288, 166

drawers, cotton, knit.

105, 149

hemp, etc., knit..

125, 152

wool, knitted..

139, 153

dressings, surgical..........

80, 146

drugs, animal products, crude medicinal. 57, 144

barks, beans, etc., crude, not edible... 55, 144

ginseng root..
oleaginous seeds, etc...... resins and gums.

56, 144 53, 144 54, 144

duplicating machines, etc.. dyes and dyestuffs..
dynamite.... earthenware. earths.....
manufactures..

f... 18654,, 115475 89, 147 11, 138 .6, 138 12, 138

edible articles and products..

278, 165

eggs, etc...

269, 165

elastic textiles, cotton.....

115, 150

hemp, etc..

138, 152

electrical machinery, apparatus and ap-

pliances.

190, 157

emery .

6, 138

paper.. wheels .

147, 153 3, 137

engines..

191, 158

envelopes, paper, plain.. excelsior...

148, 153 157, 154

explosive signals .

89, 147

explosives...
exported articles, repairs upon... extracts, meat.

89, 147 304, 168 210, 160

eyeglasses.... faïence ware..

20, 139 11, 138

fans....

274, 165

fare registers, etc.. fats, animals..

185, 157 82, 146

feathers, for ornaments..

287, 166

other..

288, 166

fecula, industrial..

87, 147

felt, roofing, etc.

283, 166

felts, cotton....

96, 147

fencing, masks and foils.

294, 167

wood .

155, 154

fertilizers, animal wastes..

181, 157

chemical and artificial.

72, 145

fezzes ....

298, 167

fibers, crude dried, drugs.

55, 144

vegetable, manufactures.. filters, etc..

134, 152 11, 138

firearms..

43, 142

cartridges, etc. , for .

89, 147

firecrackers .

89, 147

firewood ..

165, 155

fireworks .

89, 147

fish, fresh .

218, 160

in bulk, dried, salted, etc ..

213, 160

in cans, glass, or jars, cod, herring,

etc ..

212, 160

other common..

212, 160

preparations, delicatessen, etc .. 212, 160

live .

172, 156

shellfish in bulk.

214, 160

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

fishhooks .....

42, 142

fishing nets, cotton.... hemp, etc.
fishing rods, lengths. flasks, glass.. flavoring extracts, etc. flax (see hemp). floss silk...

94, 147 118, 150 167, 155
15, 139 255, 164
144, 153

flour, corn, oats, etc.
wheat, rye, and barley. flower pots...... flower stands, fine decorated, etc.
glass ...... flowers, etc., artificial..
crude drugs..
forage:.. formalin . fountain pens... fruit juice, pure..

217, 161 216, 161
11, 138 11, 138 20, 139 289, 166 55, 144 . 225, 161 74, 146 292, 167 266, 165

unfermented .

265, 165

pulp .. fruits, etc., artificial.
crude, not edible.. edible, brandied...

234, 162 289, 166
55, 144 285, 162

conserved or crystallized. dried..
fresh..

285, 162 232, 162 281, 162

in jellies, etc.. preserved.. fuels, vegetable .. furniture, common wood. fine wood...

234, 162 233, 162 165, 155 160, 155 161,,155

inlaid, gilt, etc.. straw, etc..
galloons, cotton..... hemp .
game... canned or potted ..

162 , 155 167, 155 111, 150 129, 152 201, 159 208, 160

games and toys .
gas-burner tips . gauze, copper wire..
iron or steel wire..
gearing... gelatins. geldings . genista, crude, and manufactures.

293, 167 5, 138
47, 143 34, 142 ..: 191 , 158 88, 147 168, 156 167, 154

geodetical appliances and apparatus... 300, 168

ghee...

272, 165

gin....

258, 164

ginger ale..

265, 165

brandy.. ginseng root.
glass, common hollow ware. flower stands, etc.

259, 164 56, 144 15 , 139 20, 139

lamp chimneys.. lighting articles. manufactures... mirrors ..

17, 139 16, 139 20, 139 19, 139

optical goods.. plate... plates, slabs, etc.. powdered or crushed ..

20, 139 18, 139 18, 139 20, 139

table, lighting, and domestic articles.. 16, 139

toilet articles..

16, 20, 139

window..

16, 139

glass paper.

147, 153

gloves, kid.

176, 156

other leather.

176, 156

glucose..

239, 162

glues.. goggles..

88, 147 20, 139

INDEX .

clxxxvii

Philippine Tariffof1909--Continued .

Philippine Tariffof1909-Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES -continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

gold, articles, other than jewelry........ 23, 140

goldsmiths wares...............

23, 140

jewelry.....

28, 140

plated wares..

25, 140

salts of...

76, 146

golf sticks, balls, etc..

294, 167

hooks and eyes..........
hoops, wood... wrought iron or steel..
horn, and imitation... horse-radish...... horses..

275, 165 158, 154
28, 141 278, 165 -250, 163 168, 156

grains, cracked, etc., for animal food ... 225, 161 hose, rubber, etc....

291 , 167

crude, not edible.

55, 144 hydrochloric acid ...

68, 145

edible, and meal or flour. gramophones..... graphite, and manufactures.
graphophones..... grates, cast-iron furnace..

217, 161 183, 157
65, 145 183, 157
26, .141

implements, common.. fine, for arts, trades, etc..
incense... india rubber.......................
indigo...

191, 158 193, 158
85, 146 290, 167
64, 145

grease paints...

85, 146 indurated pulp or fiber..

154, 154

grindstones..
gums... gunny sacks..

3, 137 54, 144 119, 150

infants' food, etc... ingots, copper.....
lead..

219, 161 46, 143 52, 144

gutta-percha.. gymnasium apparatus.. gypsum.

290, 167 294, 167
6, 138

tin ... zinc..
inks, printing, and other..

51, 143 52, 144 62, 145

manufactures ..

7, 138 insects, live...

172, 156

hæmatites...

58, 144 instruments, fine, for arts, trades, etc.. 193, 158

hair (see wool). dyes.....

integuments and intestines, animal.... 180, 157

85, 146 iodine.....

67, 145

human..

138, 153 iron, cast (see cast iron).

hairpins.. halters, cotton...
ribbons or bands for .

275, 165 iron or steel, anvils...

113, 150 · bars, beams, etc...

114, 150

bamboo steel.

86, 142 28, 141 28, 141

hemp, etc.... ribbons or bands for..

131, 152 132, 152

buckles....... chains...

41, 142 35, 142

hammocks, cotton....

95, 147

cutlery..

42, 142

hemp, etc....

118, 150

firearms..

43, 142

hams, smoked, etc..

204, 159

manufactures....

45, 143

hardware, saddlery. harness..

40, 142 178, 156

nails, and staples... nuts, bolts, rivets, and washers..

88, 142 87, 142

hat boxes...

285, 166

pieces in the rough..

30, 141

hats, other than straw, etc.

297, 167

finished....

81, 141

straw, chip, etc.. hay ..

296, 167 225, 161

pipe..... rails and railroad materials..

38, 142 28, 141

headgear.....

298, 167

railway car wheels, etc ...

81, 141

headings, wood.

158, 154

saddlery hardware..

40, 142.

hemp, cordage. fishing nets.

118, 150 118, 150

screws, tacks, and brads.. sheets...

39, 142 29, 141

gunny sacks.. hammocks ..
netting..

119, 150 118, 150 118, 150

structural...
tinned, terne plate, and tin plåte . wire...

32, 142 29, 141 84, 142

ropes..

118, 150

manufactures..

84, 142

tennis nets..

118, 150 isinglass..

88, 147

textiles, plain, twilled, or dam-

ivory..

asked ...

120-123, 151, 152

imitations..

277, 165 278, 165

pile fabrics... knitted goods.

124, 152 jade, unmounted .. 125, 152 jams, fruit...

13, 138 234, 162

tulles and laces.. carpeting....

126, 152 jardinieres, fine decorated , etc.. 127, 152 jars, earthenware..

11, 138 11, 138

tapestries..

128, 152

glass..

15, 139

trimmings, ribbons, etc .. shoe and corset laces....

129, 152 jasper.. 130, 152 jellies, fruit.

1, 137 234, 162

cinches, saddle girths, etc....

131, 152 jerseys, cotton.

105, 149

ribbons for..

132, 152

hemp, etc..

125, 152

waterproof and elastic stuffs..

133, 152

wool..

139, 153

manufactures.....

134, 152 jet.

277, 165

threads....

118, 150

imitations...

278, 165

twines......: . yarns..

118, 150 jewelry, gold or platinum.

117, 150

plated, gold, and silver...

23, 140 25, 140

herbs, crude drugs..

55, 144

silver..

24, 140

hexactinellida..

282, 166 joss sticks....

85, 146

hides and skins tanned, with wool or

jute (see hemp)

hair......

174, 156 kaolin .

6, 138

without wool or hair.

175, 156 kid gloves....

176, 156

hogs... hones....

170, 156 kinetoscopes.. 8, 137 kitchen utensils, earthenware.

183, 157 ... 11, 138

clxxxviii

INDEX.

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES--Continued.

(Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page

knitted goods, cotton... hemp, etc... wool, etc
knives.....

105, 149 125, 152 189, 153 42, 142

laces, cotton...
hemp, etc....
lamp chimneys, glass. lamps, vehicle, tin plate.. lard, and imitations.. laths, wood . launches..

107, 149 126, 152
17, 139 44, 143 205, 159 155, 154 200, 159

lava...

5, 138

lead, bars, sheets, etc.. other articles..

52, 144 52, 144

ingots or lumps.. leather, common.
fine...
gilt, enameled, etc .. manufactures.....

52, 144 175, 156 175, 156 175,156 179, 156

preservatives, etc. shoe, common..
fine.....
enameled, etc.. leaves, crude drugs..
lenses, for spectacles, etc.. lichens, crude drugs . lighters...
lighting articles, glass.. lime ....

... 65, 145 175, 156 175, 156 175, 156 55, 144
20, 139 55, 144 200, 159
16, 139 6, 138

chloride of..

72, 145

phosphates and superphosphates of.. 72, 145

linen (see hemp).

linoleum.....

284, 166

liqueurs. lithographic inks . loga, common wood .
fine wood...
loofah ..

260, 164 62, 145
155, 154 156, 154 282, 166

macaroni. mace......
machine belting. machinery..
magic lanterns. maize..

222, 161 247, 163 192, 158 191, 158 188, 157 217, 161

meal.. for table use...
malt beverages.. malted milk..

217, 161 218, 161 264, 164 219,-161

manganese.. manifolding machines, etc.
mantles for lamps.... marble...... mares .. marmalades, fruit..

58, 144 185, 157
5, 138 1, 137 168, 156 234, 162

matches ..

90, 147

materials, not specified, crude... advanced but not manufactured .. manufactured into articles .

308, 168 803, 168 303, 168

mathematical appliances and apparatus 300, 168

meat, canned or potted, common.. 206, 160

tongue, liver, etc......´...

207, 160

patés, delicatessen, etc

.208, 160

dry, smoked, or cured..

204, 159

extracts, etc...... fresh...... ...........

210, 160 202, 159

salted, etc...

203, 159

mechanically operated music, picture,

etc., machines ....

183, 157

medicinal preparations...

79,146

products, crude animal.

57, 144

medicines, Chinese....

78, 146

Philippine Tariff of1909-Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES- Continued .

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

medicines, proprietary..

78, 146

meerschaum . imitations.......

277, 165 278, 165

mercury . metals, aluminum .

49, 143 50, 143

copper and alloys.

46-48, 143

giorlodn.a.nd steel...........................................

28, 140 26-45, 141-143

lead.....

52, 144

mercury. nickel .

49, 143 50, 143

other, and alloys .

52, 144

platinum...

.: 28, 140

silver.....

24, 140

tin ..... zinc......
mica...

51, 143 52, 144
5, 138

milks and creams, compounded ..

268, 165

pure.... millet..
millstones.....

267, 165 217, 161 ,
8, 137

mimeographs and parts. mineral oils..

185, 157 22, 140

waters ...

*265, 165

Wax. miners' fuses and caps

83, 146 89, 147

mirrors, glass....... molasses ..
mops, cotton...

19, 139 288, 162
96, 147

mosses, crude drugs..

55, 144

mother-of-pearl .. imitations...

277, 165 278, 165

motor cycles and parts....

196, 158

motors...

191, 158

mules...

168, 156

music, printed or lithographed . musicalinstruments and parts..

149, 154 182, 157

automatic mechanical.... with other devices.....
mustard ..

183, 157 188, 157 250, 163

nails and clasp nails, iron or steel.. navy resin.

88, 142 54, 144

needles...

275, 165

nets, fishing, cotton..

94, 147

hemp...

118, 150

tennis, cotton .

95, 147

hemp

118,150

netting, cotton .

95, 147

hemp...

118, 150

nickel, and alloys, bars, sheets, etc ... 50, 143

other articles..

50, 143

nitric acid...

68, 145

Nottingham lace articles, cotton .

107, 149

nutmegs ..

248, 163

nuts, edible, and products. iron or steel...
oats .

286, 162 87,142
217, 161

meal... for table use.
ochers ....

217, 161 218, 161
58, 144

odometers.. oil cake.. oilcloth.. oils, animal.

184, 157 225, 161 284, 166
82, 146

essential. fixed vegetable.. mineral. oilstones..

85, 146. 81, 146 22, 140 3, 137

oleaginous seeds ..

53, 144

oleomargarine ..

272, 165

onyx....

1, 137

INDEX .

clxxxix

Philippine Tariff of1909-Continued . DUTIABLE ARTICLES-Continued.

Philippine Tariff of1909-Continued. DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

(Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

opal, unmounted ....

18, 138

opium, and preparations ....

77, 146

optical appliances and apparatus.

300, 168

ornaments, ordinary, not gold, etc ..... 276, 165

osiers, crude, and manufactures..

167, 155

oxen..

169, 156

oysters, fresh .
paints, common. minerál, common.. other.

214, 160 59, 144 58, 144 59, 144

paper, blank books ..

151, 154

books and albums of lithographs, etc. 153, 154

cigarette...

150, 154

copying books..

151, 154

confetti...

148, 153

designs for industrial uses. envelopes.. papier-mâché, etc. plain, not printed ..
manufactures....

153, 154 148, 153 154, 154 148, 153 148, 153

printed books..............
printed, lithographed, etc. manufactures ...

152, 154 149, 154 149, 154

printed or lithographed music. printing. sand, etc.. serpentine .... sheathing and roofing. writing... papier-mâché. ...

149, 154 147, 153 147, 153 148, 153 147, 153 148, 153 154, 154

paraffin

22, 83, 140, 146

parasols and frames...

295, 167

pasteboard, plain, not printed .

148, 153

manufactures ........

148, 153

printed, lithographed, etc... manufactures...

149, 154. 149, 154

pastes for soups .. patent medicines .
paving glass...
paving slabs, etc., glass. pearls, unmounted.. peas, dried.

222, 161 78, 146 18, 139 18, 139 18, 138
226, 161

pedometers .
pencils . pens..
reservoir..

184, 157. 63, 145
275, 165 292, 167

pepper.. peppers, pod; dried .......
perambulators.....
wooden parts for. percussion caps for firearms..
perfumery...
pharmaceutical products ...
phonographs.. phosphorus.. photographic equipment, etc. picture-projecting devices... pigments, paints, etc............
mineral, common. other..

249, 163 249, 163 198, 158 199, 159
89, 147 85, 146 79, 146 183, 157 67, 145 299, 167 183, 157 58-65, 144, 145 58, 144 59, 144

pigs, sucking..
pile fabrics, cotton... towels and bath robes..

171, 156 103, 149 104, 149

hemp, etc... pillowshams, cotton lace.
pins, common and safety. pipes, aluminum ...
clay, and cement. cast-iron..
copper.. lead .

124, 152 107, 149 275, 165 50, 143
9, 138 26, 141 46, 143 52, 144

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

pipes, nickel. tin .. wood .

50, 143 51, 143 159, 154

wrought-iron or steel.. zinc .

83, 142 52, 144

piqués, cotton...

101, 149

pitch, Burgundy, etc.

54, 144

piths, crude, and manufactures ....... 167, 155

plates, cast-iron...

... 26, 141

platinum, articles other than jewelry.... 28, 140

goldsmiths' wares..

28, 140

jewelry..

23, 140

salts of.

76, 146

plumbing articles, zinc, lead, etc. plushes, cotton...

52, 144 103, 149

hemp, etc.. poles, common wood .
fine wood..
polo mallets, balls, etc.

124, 152 155, 154 156, 154 294, 167

pool tables, etc ...
porcelain, decorated, etc. wares .

164, 155 11, 138 11, 138

potassium, bitartrate.

chloride of..

.....

nitrate of.

74, 146 72, 145 72, 145

oxide and hydroxide of. sulphate of... potted meats, common. soups and broths...... poultry. canned preparations of. live...

70, 145 72, 145 208, 160 209, 160 201, 159 207, 160 178, 156

powder, giant, blasting, etc. precious stones, unmounted.
doublets, and imitation.....
primers, explosive . printing inks. products, edible.

89, 147 13, 138
14, 139 89, 147 62, 145 273, 165

proprietary medicines.. puddings ..
pulp board, plain, not printed.. manufactures....

78, 146 221, 161 148, 153 148, 153

printed, lithographed, etc. manufactures..

149, 154 149, 154

pulse, dried edible.

226, 161

pumice.. pumps..
putty. quicksilver..
rabbits, canned preparations of. railroad materials, iron or steel..

6, 138 191, 158
59, 145 49, 143
207, 160 28, 141

rails, iron or steel... railway-car materials, iron or steel .
vehicles, and parts... rattan, crude, and manufactures..
split or stripped.. rawhide, manufactures......... razors .

28, 141 81, 141 197, 158 167, 155 167, 155 178,156 42, 142

red-lead paints reeds, crude, and manufactures.. reins, cotton.
ribbons or bands for.

59, 144 167, 155 113, 150 114, 150

hemp, etc... ribbons or bands for.

131, 152 182, 152

reliefs, high, ceramic...

11, 138

repairs to vessels in Philippine trade .. 200, 159

upon exported articles..

804, 168

reptiles, live.. resins..

172, 156 54, 144

ribbons, cotton .. hemp, etc....

111, 150 129, 152

CXC

INDEX .

Philippine Tariffof1909-Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-Continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

rice, until May 1, 1910.. after May 1, 1910 .. discretionary authority over..
rivets, iron or steel.. rods, wrought-iron or steel. Roneos, and parts.. roofing felt or textiles..
glass... paper... root beer.

215, 160 215, 160 215, 160
87, 142 28, 141 185, 157 283, 166 18, 139 147, 153 265, 165

rope, cotton.....................
hemp, etc........ yarn, hemp, etc.. roots, dyeing and tanning.. rubberoid. rum ..

94, 147 118, 150 118, 150 64, 145 288, 166 258, 164

rushes, crude, and manufactures..
rye... flour..
saccharine..

167, 155 216, 161 216, 161 240, 162

sacks, cotton thread for sewing.
saddle girths, cotton... ribbons or bands for.
hemp, etc.... ribbons or bands for.

94, 147 ,118, 150 '114, 150 131, 152 182, 152

saddlery... hardware.
saffron...
sail thread, cotton. sake..
stronger.. salt, common..
for curing meats. salts, inorganic.
organic .. sandals..
sandpaper.. sanitary articles, earthenware, etc.....
lead, zinc, etc.. Satsuma ware....... sauces, table.
sausage casings.. sausages, dry, cured, or smoked .
other..

178, 156 40, 142 251, 163 94, 147 262, 164 263, 164 72, 145 204, 159 72, 145
73, 146 177, 156 147, 153
11, 138 52, 144 11, 138 253, 164 203, 159 204, 159 207, 160

sawdust.. schists ...

157, 154 22, 140

scientific appliances and apparatus.... 300, 168

scissors...

42, 142

screws, iron or steel..

39, 142

sea food..

212, 160

seeds, aromatic, and of morbid crude...
edible . for animal food..
oleaginous.... semiprecious stones, unmounted..
imitation... Sevres ware..
sewing machines, and parts. thread, cotton..
shafting... shavings, wood. shawl straps.. shears... sheathing felt or textiles..
paper. sheets, aluminum..
copper. lead. nickel. tin ...

growth, 55, 144
224, 161 225, 161
53, 144 18, 138 14, 139 11, 138 187, 157 93, 147 191, 158 157, 154 285, 166 42, 142 283, 166 147, 153 50, 143 46, 143 52, 144 50, 143 51  

Philippine Tariffof1909--Continued .

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

sheets, wrought-iron or steel ... zinc...

29, 141 52, 144

shellfish, in bulk..

214, 160

in cans, etc..

212, 160

shells, polished, etc.... shingles, wood...

281, 166 155, 154

shoe laces, cotton.

112, 150

hemp, etc....
polishes, etc.. shoes...

180, 152 65, 145
177, 156

shooks, wood.

158, 154

sidearms, not firearms..

42, 142

silk, floss and twisted. raw.

144, 153 142, 153

spun:. textiles, in the piece..
manufactures..

148, 153 145, 153 146, 153

waste ..

142, 153

silver, articles, other than jewelry........... jewelry.. plated wares... Balts of.. silversmiths' wares...............................

24, 140 24, 140 25, 140 76, 146 24, 140

sirups.....

288, 162

skins (see hides and skins).

slippers.....

177, 156

slot machines, automatic..

188, 157

soaps and soap powders.. soda ash.

84, 146 70, 145

sodium, nitrate of..

72, 145

oxide and hydroxide of..

70, 145

soups, canned or potted.. tablets, concentrated, etc.
spectacles... spices, other.

209, 160 210, 160
20, 139 252, 163

spirits, alcoholic .

258, 164

turpentine... sponges, natural..

61, 145 282, 166

springs, railway car, iron or steel.

81, 141

squares, clay, and cement..

9, 138

stallions..

168, 156

stamp pads.. staples, iron or steel.. starch, industrial. statuettes..

185, 157 38, 142 87, 147 11, 138

staves, wood.. steam boilers.

158, 154 191, 158

steel (see iron or steel). stems, crude drugs...

55, 144

sticks for umbrellas, canes, etc.

167, 155

Stockholm tar.....

54, 144

stockings or socks, cotton..

105, 149

hemp, etc... wool.

125, 152 189, 153

stones, fine...

1, 137

other.. stoneware..

2, 137 11, 138

straw, crude, and manufactures..

.167, 155

for animals...

225, 161

hats, bonnets, etc..

296, 167

strawboard, plain, not printed . manufactures ..

148, 153 148, 153

printed, lithographed, etc.. manufactures ..

149, 154 149, 154

tarred felt, etc....

288, 166

structural iron or steel pieces..

82, 142

substances, not specified, crude.. advanced but not manufactured...
manufactured into articles ..

808, 168 808, 168 808; 168

sugar. suit cases...

287, 162 285, 166

INDEX .

cxci

Philippine Tariffof1909--Continued. DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

sulphur.

66, 145

dioxide.

68, 145

sulphuric acid.

68, 145

surgical appliances and apparatus . dressings...
swabs, cotton..... sweetmeats..

800, 168 80, 146 96, 147
241, 162

swine..

170, 156

sword canes, etc.......................... table sauces..

42, 142 258, 164

tableware, china, etc.

11, 138

glass.... tacks ..

16, 139 89, 142

tan bark and tanning extracts .

64, 145

tapes, cotton .....

111, 150

boot straps....

111, 150

hemp, etc.

129, 152

boot straps...

129, 152

tapestries, cotton.. hemp, etc.

109, 150 128, 152

tar, Stockholm .

54, 144

tars, pitches, and tar oils:.

22, 140

tea .

244, 163

teeth, artificial

279, 166

"telescope" bags..

285, 166

tenders...

191, 158

tennis nets, cotton

95, 147

hemp, etc.

118, 150

rackets, balls, etc.

294, 167

terne plate......

29, 141

manufactures....

44, 143

textiles, cotton...

97-116, 147-150

hemp, flax, etc..

120-134, 151, 152

roofing, sheathing, etc silk..

283, 166 145-146, 153

wool.....

140, 153

threads, cotton, coarse. mercerized...

93, 147 93, 147

sewing, etc.

93, 147

hemp, etc. tiger-eye, unmounted.

118, 150 13, 138

tiles, ceramic..

10, 138

clay, and cement........

9, 138

tin, and alloys, bars, sheets, etc.

51, 143

foil .

51, 143

' plate....

29, 141

manufactures...

44, 143

vehicle lamps..

44, 143

tires, wrought- iron or steel .

28, 141

tobacco, leaf..

301, 168

cigars, etc........

801, 168

other..

301, 168

toilet articles, glass ..

16, 139

preparations... tool bags, chests, and cases.. tools, common .

85, 146 285, 166 191, 158

fine, for arts, trades, etc ..

193, 158

tooth soaps and powders .
torpedoes, toy.. tortoise shell ..

... 85, 146 89, 147
277, 165

imitation ..

278, 165

towels, cotton pile fabrics....

104, 149

toys and games...

293, 167

track, crossings, iron or steel.. sections, iron or steel ....

28, 141 28, 141

tramway vehicles, and parts . tramways, portable, iron or steel

197, 158 28, 141

traveling bags.. trimmings, cotton ..

285, 166 111, 150

hemp, etc. trinkets, ordinary.

129, 152 276, 165

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

DUTIABLE ARTICLES-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Pago.

trolley wire, copper ..

47, 143

trucks, warehouse..

194, 158

wooden parts for. trunks....

199, 159 285, 166

tubing, flexible..

291, 167

tulles, cotton ....

106, 149

hemp, etc.

126, 152

tuns, wood...

159, 154

turbans..

298, 167

turpentine, spirits of. twines, cotton.....................

61, 145 94, 147

hemp, etc.

118, 150

type.....

52, 144

typewriters, and parts . umbrellas, and frames.

185, 157 295, 167

undershirts, cotton knit..

105, 149

hemp, etc., knit.. wool, knitted..

125, 152 139, 153

urns, glass. valises..
vanilla beans..

20, 139 285, 166 256, 164

varnishes..

60, 145

vaseline .

22, 140

vases, fine, decorated, etc.

11, 138

glass.....

20, 139

vegetable fibers, manufactures . hair, crude, and manufactures .

184, 152 167, 155

oils, fixed ..

81, 146

products, crude drugs, not edible.. wax .

55, 144 88,146

vegetables, edible, dried, etc. fresh..

228, 161 227, 161

pickled..

280, 162

preserved. vehicles, railway and tramway.

229, 162 197, 158

other wheeled.......

198, 158

wooden parts for .

199, 159

velocipedes, and parts.

196, 158

velveteens, cotton...

103, 149

hemp, etc... velvets, cotton..

124, 152 108, 149

hemp, etc. vermicelli.......

124, 152 222, 161

vermouth..

262, 164

stronger..

268, 164

Vienna furniture..

160, 155

vinegar..

254, 164

wafers, edible....

220, 161

wagons..

194, 158

wooden parts for..

199, 159

washers, iron or steel..

37, 142

waste, animal ..

181, 157

cotton ..

.... 91, 147

other.. silk.....

302, 168 142, 153

wool...

135, 153

watches, and parts.. water craft.......

184, 157 200, 159

waterproof stuffs, cotton, etc..

115, 150

hemp, etc... waters, mineral .

133, 152 265, 165

sweetened, etc..

265, 165

wax, mineral, vegetable, and animal..... 88, 146

weeds, crude drugs...

55, 144

weighing apparatus, etc.. Welsbach lamp mantles....

189, 157 5, 138

whalebone, and imitations.. wheat..

278, 165 216, 161

cracked, for table use..

218, 161

flour...

216, 161

wheelbarrows...

194, 158

cxcii

INDEX .

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued. DUTIABLE ARTICLES- Continued.

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued. ARTICLES ON PREE LIST continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

wheelbarrows, wooden parts for....... .. 199, 159

wheels, emery, etc...

8, 137

railway car, iron or steel..

81, 141

whetstones..

8, 137

whips..

178, 156

whipstocks.

167, 155

whisky..

258, 164

white lead paints..

59, 144

whitewash substances, dry..

58, 144

liquid or paste....

59, 145

wicks, cotton, for candles, etc.

94, 147

for lamps...

110, 150

window glass ..

18, 139

wine lees..

74, 146

wines, sparkling..

261, 164

still...

262, 164

stronger.

288, 164

wire, aluminum..

50, 143

copper.....

47, 143

covered with textiles, etc ..

47, 143

cables and trolley wires..

47, 143

covered with silk...

47, 143

gauze, cloth, etc.

47, 143

manufactures ..

47, 143

iron or steel..

34, 142

manufactures..

84, 142

lead... nickel......

52, 144 50, 143

tin ..

51, 143

zinc..

52, 144

wood, barbers' and dentists' chairs..... 163, 155

billiard, etc., tables...

164, 155

bowling alleys, etc..

164, 155

.common..

155, 154

manufactures..

160, 155

common or fine, manufactures, etc...
fine...... manufactures..
shavings, etc... shooks, staves, hoops, etc.. tuns, pipes, casks, etc.. wood fillers...

inlaid, 162, 155
156, 154 161, 155 157, 154 158, 154 159, 154 60, 145

woods, crude drugs..

55, 144

dyeing and tanning.

64, 145

wool, bristles, animal hair, and manu-

factures...

137, 153

carded or dyed.

135, 153

combed ...

135, 153

knitted goods.

139, 159

manufactures..

141, 153

textiles...

140, 153

waste........

135, 153

yarns.. writing machines, etc..

136, 153 185, 157

yarns, cotton...

92, 93, 147

hemp, etc.. wool. zinc, bars, sheets, etc. other articles..........
ingots or lumps...

117, 150 136, 153
52, 144 52, 144 52, 144

ARTICLES ON FREE LIST.

advertising lithographs, etc....... aluminum, pigs, etc...

325, 169 306, 168

animals, breeding; certificate required . 831, 170

animals, etc., for exhibition or competition

for prizes: regulations...

345, 172

articles, animals, etc., for display at ex-

positions, etc.; regulations....... 345, 172

(Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

articles, for construction, etc., of vessels;

regulations...

349, 173

native, exported without drawback and

returned unchanged in value; regu-

lations....

347, 173

to be repaired ; regulations.. bell metal..

350, 173 306, 168

Bibles..

326, 169

blind, books and music for..

326, 169

booklets, advertising...........

325, 169

books, exported and returned unchanged

in value; regulations.

347, 173

in raised characters, for the blind.......... 326, 169

scientific, etc., not for sale, for societies,

schools, libraries, etc.; regula-

tions ..

846, 172

for individuals; limit .

346, 173

brass, scrap...

306, 168

bristles, washed only..

811, 169

cables, submarine telegraph..

321, 169

calendars, advertising...

825, 169

carabao; conditions...

882, 170

cinchona bark, salts, etc.

820, 169

circus equipment, etc; conditions.. 839, 171

coins and currency.. collections of stamps..

318, 169 327, 169

. commercial documents, executed.. 818, 169

samples; limitation..

338, 170

containers of goods, wares, and merchan-

dise......

351, 173

consulates, supplies for foreign.

842, 172

copper, scrap, matte, etc..

306, 168

correspondence...

327, 169

cotton, raw..

809, 169

documents, typewritten..

287, 169

drawings, pen and ink, art.

324, 169

economic books, etc. , for societies, schools,

libraries, etc.; regulations..

846, 172

for individuals; limit...

846, 173

effects, personal, of residents dying abroad

.840, 171

entertainment, articles for public; condi-

tions....

889, 171

expositions, articles, animals, etc., for dis-

play in; regulations...

345, 172

family paintings, etc...

324, 169

fibers, raw or hackled, vegetable......... 310, 169

folders, advertising. gems, etc., for societies, etc.

825, 169 334, 170

gold, bars, scrap, etc...

815, 169

hair, animal, washed only..

811, 169

hides, not tanned..

316, 169

historical books, etc. , for societies, schools,

libraries, etc.; regulations ... for individuals; limit... H..

346, 172 846, 173

holdings of goods, wares, and merchan-

dise....

351, 173

hops....

817, 169

household effects of Philippine residents

returning from abroad; regula-

tions...

344, 172

hymnals, etc.. ice...

326,.169 323, 169

iron, scrap, pig, ingots.. jewelry, broken up gold, etc.. lead, scrap, pigs, etc..

306, 168 315, 169 306, 168

life-preservers, and life buoys..

307, 168

lithographs, advertising..

325, 169

magazines, etc.

326, 169

malt.

817, 169

INDEX .

cxciii

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

Philippine Tariff of1909--Continued.

ARTICLES ON FREE LIST continued.

ARTICLES ON FREE LIST-continued.

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

manufactures, native, exported without

drawback and returned unchanged

in value; regulations...............

847, 173

manures, natural.

819, 169

manuscripts....

827, 169

materials for construction, etc., of vessels;

regulations...

849, 173

medals, etc., received as prizes...

828, 169

models, not for practical use.

318, 169

moss, live...

805, 168

mules; conditions..

882, 170

Muntz metal .

306, 168

museums, public, scientific collections,

etc., for..

841, 171

music in raised characters, for the blind. 326, 169

newspapers.

326, 169

nickel, pigs, etc. oakum..

806, 168 808, 169

onions. ores .

814, 169 806, 168

paintings, oil, etc.

324, 169

on glass for presentation to public in-

stitutions..

835, 170

works of art, exported and returned un-

changed in value; regulations... 847, 173

paperpulp and stock..

812, 169

periodicals...

826, 169

personal effects of residents dying

abroad..

840, 171

Philippine, etc., vessels, repairs , made

abroad to; proof......

848, 173

philosophical books, apparatus, etc., for so-

cieties, schools, libraries, etc.; regu-

lations.

846, 172

for individuals; limit. ............ 846, 173

photographs, family.

824, 169

pipe organs, forreligious, etc., purposes. 829, 169

plants, live..

805, 168

platinum, bars, scrap, etc. posters, advertising.

815, 169 825, 169

potatoes, Irish .

814, 169

prizes, medals, etc., received as.... 828, 169

products, -native, exported without draw-

back and returned unchanged in

value; regulations....

847, 173

professional instruments, etc., of settlers;

conditions...

388, 171

public documents, etc., of foreign govern-

ments.

827, 169

pulp, paper.

312, 169

pumps forsalvage of vessels; conditions. 848, 172

quinine, sulphate, etc.

320, 169

regalia, etc., for societies, etc.

884, 170

repairs, articles brought in for; regula-

tions ...

850, 173

made abroad to documented Philip-

pine, etc., vessels; proof.

348, 173

residents returning from abroad, wearing apparel and household effects of; Page.

regulations.. reviews, periodicals.

344, 172 826, 169

salvage of vessels, pumps for; conditions.343, 172

samples, commercial; limitation.

833, 170

of no commercial value.

313, 169

schoolbooks.

826, 169

schools, scientific collections, etc., for .. 341, 171

scientific books, apparatus, etc. , for soci-

eties, schools, libraries, etc.; regula-

tions..

346, 172

for individuals; limit.

346, 173

[Heavy-faced figures indicate paragraph.] Page.

scorise of ores..

806, 168

scrap metal, baser..

806, 168

sculptures, specimens or casts of, for so-

cieties, etc...

834, 170

serums...

822, 169

settlers, personal and household effects,

etc., conditions.

388, 171

shoots, live......

805, 168

silkworm eggs and cocoons; conditions. 880, 170

silver, bars, scrap, etc...

815, 169

skins, raw, etc., not tanned.

316, 169

societies, scientific, etc., collections for. 841, 171

stamps, collections of...

827, 169

statuary, etc., for societies, etc.

884, 170

steel, ingots..

806, 168

submarine telegraph cables.

821, 169

supplies for foreign consulates; condi-

tions ....

842, 172

text-books used in Philippine schools.. 826, 169

theatrical equipment, etc.; conditions.. 889, 171

tin, scrap, ingots, etc..

806, 168

tools of trade, etc., of settlers, not for sale,

etc.; conditions..

888, 171

travelers' household effects, horses, etc.;

conditions..

887, 171

personal effects; limitations.

386, 170

trees, live..

805, 168

trophies, medals, etc., received as.... 828, 169

vaccines..

822, 169

vegetable fibers, raw, etc.

810, 169

vessels, articles for construction, etc., of;

regulations....

807, 849, 168, 173

Philippine, etc., repairs made abroad to;

proof.....

848, 173

wearing apparel of Philippine residents

returning from abroad; regula-

tions.....

844, 172

wool, washed only.

811, 169

work animals, bovine; conditions.

882, 170

works of art, paintings, etc..

824, 169

exported and returned unchanged in

value; regulations ... .

847, 173

for presentation to public institutions,

etc...

.... 335, 170

for public museums, galleries, etc... 841, 171

zinc, scrap, pigs, etc..

306, 168

EXPORT DUTIES.

abaca (hemp). copra:... stoubgaacr.c.o.

852, 174 354, 174 853, 174 855, 174

not to be paid on articles shipped direct to United States.

Phillip and Strangways Lumber Company,
may bridge Saint Francis River, between Fisk and Saint Francis, Ark.................... 179

Philosophical Apparatus, etc. ,

on free list," for colleges, etc., not for

sale

78

for temporary exhibition, etc., not for

sale; conditions........

81

Philosophical Societies, etc.,

on free list, apparatus, etc., for ......

78

books, etc., for; limit..

74

Phoenix, Ariz.,

appropriation for Indian School....... 273,1062

for public building.......

1379

constitution to provide for capital of State

at, until 1926 ...

570

limit of cost increased, public building... 677 .

88740°-Vol 36 PT 1-11-106

cxciv

INDEX .

287228$

Phonographs, etc., duty on.
Phosphates, on free list, crude..
Phosphates, Lands Bearing, within temporary reservations for power sites, etc., notopen tooccupation, etc.

Page. 70 78
847

Phosphoric Acid,

on free list...

71

Phosphorus,

duty on.

16

Photogelatin Printed Paper Articles,

duty on, not specially provided for......

64

Photographic Dry Plates or Films,

duty on, not otherwise provided for..

70

on free list, American, exposed abroad.... 73

Photographic Film Negatives,

duty on, for moving pictures..

70

Photographic Film Positives,

duty on, for moving pictures..

70

Photographic Lenses,

duty on..

21

Photographic Paper,

duty on, albumenized, etc..

62

plain basic ..

62

Photographic Pictures,

on free list, for temporary exhibition, etc. ,

not for sale; conditions.......

81

Photographs,

duty on albums of..

64

not specially provided for...

64

on free list, for educational institutions,

etc., limit.

74

by societies, etc., for exhibition, not for

sale; conditions...

81

for the United States, or Library of Con-

gress.

73

printed more than 20 years...

73

Phthalic Acid,

on free list..

71

Physical Constants,

appropriation for operating testing mach-

ines to determine, etc...

1232

deficiency appropriation for testing ma-

chine for determination of........

216

Physical Hydrography,

appropriation for continuing researches

in.

759, 1433

Physical Researches, Geological, appropriation for...
Pianoforte Actions, duty on, or parts thereof..

743, 1418 70

Pianoforte andPiano- Action Leather,

duty on.

68

Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N. J.,

appropriation for storage magazine.

720

for high explosive plant...

1398

Pickering, Marshall,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318 Pickets,

duty on wood .....

33

Pickles,

duty on.

36

Picric Acid,

on free list..

71

Pictures (see also Works of Art),

duty on lithographically printed ....

62

Pictures, etc., Obscene or Immoral,

importation prohibited ; seizure, etc...... 86

Pictures, Photographic,

on free list, for temporary exhibition, etc.,

not for sale; conditions ...

81

Pierre, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school.

283, 1071

deficiency appropriation for Indian school

at...

223, 226, 811

terms of court at.

1124

DI2SN12

22$2

Pigments, duty on artists'.
not specially provided for.. Pigs,
duty on iron.... lead . nickel....... zinc..

Page. 16 15
21

on free list, copper, unmanufactured, not

specially provided for. tin ..
Pike National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1250

Pike Rapids Power Company,

time extended to dam Mississippi River,

Morrison County, Minn., by...

1359

Pile Fabrics,

955 19

duty on cotton, etc..................

47

flax, etc..

51

silk, not specially provided for..

57

Pilkington Bayou, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 675 Pill Tiles,

duty on..

18

Pillow Shams,

duty on cotton, etc.; made on Nottingham

lace or warp machines...

50

Pills,

duty on medicinal, etc., drugs in........................

16

Pilot Chart, Navy,

appropriation for preparing.. for North Pacific monthly.

508, 1210 508, 1210

to state that data is furnished by Hydro-

graphic Office and Weather Bureau . 508

meteorological information for, to be

promptly furnished to Hydrographic

Office by Weather Bureau.

508

Pilot, Coast,

appropriation for compiling..... Pima County, Ariz.,

756, 1433

lands granted to Arizona to pay bonds is-

sued by..

573

Pima Indians, Ariz.,

appropriation for irrigation system, Gila

River Reservation ..

272

repayment of all moneys for..

272

Pimento,

on free list, unground.

79

Pimento Wood,

on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrellas,

canes, etc... .......

81

Pine Bluff, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of Arkansas

River at..

651

bridge authorized across Arkansas River at. 601

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak., unallotted, etc., lands in, to be sold; description.. timber lands excepted ...
relinquishment of allotments.. reservations for agency, schools, etc...
patents to religious organizations . opening to entry by proclamation.
allotments to be completed before.... town sites to be surveyed , etc.; sale of lots.
payments; use of proceeds.. appraisal and sale of homesteads.
classification of lands......... timber lands reserved for Indians.
method of payment and entry.. reappraisal of undisposed of lands.. deposit of proceeds to credit of Indians.. sections 16 and 36 granted to South Da-
kota; lieu land selections; restrictions..
sections 16 and 36 in Bennett County granted to South Dakota ..

440 440 440 440 440 441 441 441 441 441 441 442 442 442 442
442
1072

INDEX.

CXCV

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak.-Con. Page. | Placards,

Page.

sections 16 and 36 in Bennett County "

duty on lithographically printed ...................

62

granted to S. Dakota; lieu-land selec-

Places of Amusement, etc.,

tions extended to the whole reserva-

penalty for discriminating against wearers

tion; restrictions...

1073

of United States uniforms by....... 963

appropriation for purchase of school sec-

Plainfield, N. J.,

tions..

443 deficiency appropriation for public build-

for expenses of appraising, etc.; reim-

ing, site.

207

bursement..

443 Plaits,

intoxicants prohibited..

443 duty on, straw, etc., for hats, etc.......

64

liability of United States defined ...

443 Planks,

treaty rights unimpaired ....

443 duty on, sawed cabinet wood.

83

Pineapples, duty on.

sawed whitewood, sycamore, and bass-

38

wood ...

33

preserved in their own juice..

38 Plans, etc., for Government Buildings,

Piney Branch Parkway NW., D. C.,

may be prepared in office of Supervising

appropriation for care and improvement.. 983

Architect at request of head of de-

deficiency appropriation for expenses... 784

partment, etc..

699

placed under Rock Creek Park Board of

Plant Breeding,

Control.....

983 appropriation for demonstrations ofgeneral

*1*5820228$.

Pins, duty on hair, hat, safety, etc. silver, etc., jewelry...
Pipe Lines,

and cooperative ....

422, 1243

31 Plant Industry Bureau, Department of Agri-

67

culture,

appropriation for salaries...

-420, 1241

transportation of oil, etc., by, subject to in-' terstate commerce regulations..... 544

for general expenses and investiga-

tions ..

421, 1242

Pipe Lines, Oil or Gas, right of way through Arkansas public land's

for investigating, etc., plant, fruit, and

tree diseases.

421, 1242

granted for..

296

forinvestigating, etc., cotton, truck, etc.,

Pipes, duty on. bowls ..

plants...

421, 1242

70

for plant nutrition, adaptation, etc... 421, 1242

fordrug,tea, fiber, etc., investigations. 421, 1242

cast-iron. iron or steel, welded, seamed, or jointed.

for grading, etc., cotton and grain... 422, 1242

for physical examinations.

422, 1242

copper....... lead...

for collecting, etc., new seeds, etc... 422, 1242 for testing commercial seeds,etc.. 422, 1242

Pipestone, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 276, 1065

Piqua, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.

1379

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized.....

687

Piscataqua River,

for improving production, grain; to-

'bacco..

422, 1242

for forage crops, etc..

1242

for plant breeding; fibers for paper mak-

ing..

422, 1243

for drought-resistant, etc., plants. 422, 1243

for sugar-producing plants.

422, 1243

bridge authorized across, Portsmouth, N.H. 1362 Pistols,

for improving grazing lands; farm prac-

tice .

422, 1243

23 82

duty on..

28

allotment to Alaska.

1243

Pistols, Army Standard Automatic,

appropriation for issue to States, etc., of,

for Organized Militia .

1057

for meeting ravages of cotton boll

weevil.

422, 1243

for dry-land farming experiments.. 422, 1243

Pitch,

for utilizing reclaimed lands.

*422, 1243

on free list, Burgundy.. coal-tar.

74

for investigating fruit, etc., production

74

and shipment...

422, 1243

wood .

80

for experimental gardens and grounds. 423, 1243

Pitch Pipes, duty on.
Pithlachascotee River, Fla. ,

for farm, Arlington, Va...

423, 1243

70

for testinggarden, Fort Brown, Tex.. 423, 1243

for administrative expenses.

423, 1243

preliminary examination to be made of... 954

for seed purchase and distribution... 423, 1243

Pukin, Colo.,

deficiency appropriation for expenses... 223,

granted lands for public park......................... 461

812, 1324

Pillsburg County, Okla.,

federal jail at McAlester, transferred to;

conditions...

702

for seeds, etc., distribution.: 224, 812, 814, 1324

for botanical investigations....

1324

for cotton boll weevil, expenses. ..... 1324

Pittsburg, Pa.,

Plantation Creek, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 638, 936 appropriation for improvement of.....

643

for marine hospital, furniture, etc .......

781 Planters,

285

deficiency appropriatiom for repairs to

duty on agricultural; admitted free from

building..

121

country not imposing duty..........

71

for post-office building, custodian...

208 Plants,

for public building...

780 duty on greenhouse....

36

report, etc., to be made on proposed canal

nursery orgreenhouse stock.

37

to Lake Erie from Ohio River, at

on free list, for Department of Agriculture

local expense..

956

or Botanic Garden.

78

10

terms of court at.

1123

time extended for bridging Monongahela

tropical and semitropical, for cultiva-

tion.....

75

River at..

269, 908 Plaques,

Pittsfield, Mass.,

duty on, China, etc. , decorated, etc..

18

appropriation for public building .................. 706

china, etc., not decorated , etc...

18

22222272*82*22*02*52*8*80

cxcvi

INDEX .

Plaster ofParis,

Page.

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for.....

70

Plaster Rock,

duty on.

18

Plasters, Healing or Curative,

duty on.

16

Plate Iron,

duty on boiler or other....

Plates,

duty on, carbon ...

19

cast-iron...

26

chiseled, etc.

26

circular saw..

25

copper, rolled ..

30

electrotype...

28

engraved for printing .

fur......

67

iron or steel, for producing designs, etc. ,

on glass..

28

cold rolled, etc. , not polished..

23

polished..

25

pickled...

23

with other metal imposed.....

23

lithographic, of stone, etc. , engraved,

etc.

28

nickel..

31

steel, engraved ...

28

not specially provided for...

23

stereotype.

28

stove, cast-iron.......

26

tin and terne.....

23

on free list, copper, unmanufactured, not

specially provided for.....

74

glass, rough-cut, for optical instruments. 76

platinum.

78

Platinum,

duty on articles of jewelry...

68

manufactures of, not specially provided

for..

33

on free list, combinations of iridium, etc.,

with..

76

unmanufactured or in ingots, bars, plates,

sheets, wire, sponge, or scrap..

78

vases, retorts, etc., -of, for chemical

uses .

78

Platt National Park, Okla., appropriation for maintenance, etc..... 745, 1420

Plattsburg, N. Y., appropriation for improvement ofharbor.. 635

Playgrounds, D. C. ,

appropriation for equipment......

389, 981

wholly from District revenues..

389

for toilet facilities, etc., Rosedale and

Georgetown..

389

for interior park, square 534.

981

Playing Cards,

duty on..

64

Pleasure Boats (see Yachts).

Pleuro Pneumoni, etc., Animal,

appropriation for preventing spread of,

from one State to another...

420, 1239

Pliers,

duty on...

33

Plows,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty...

71

Plumas National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250

Plumbago,

on free list..

78

Plumbers' Knives,

duty on..

27

Plumbing Inspection, D. C. , appropriation for salaries, division of.... 375, 967

Plums, duty on green or ripe. dried, etc...

Page. 37 38

Plunkett, Assistant Engineer M. H.,

may be advanced to passed assistant engineer, Navy, retired
Plush, duty on hatters'.
velvet, ribbons.

1360

gN*3*8

Plushes,

duty on cotton, etc..... silk..

of camel's-hair, etc. , classified as wool. Plushes, Silk,
distinction between velvets and..................

Plymouth, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 632

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

672

Pneumatic-Tube Service, Postal Service,

credit of sales ofsteam for, in public build-

ings, to fuel, etc.....

121

Pneumatic Tubes,

appropriation for maintenance, repairs,

etc., appraisers' stores and custom-

house, New York City..

708, 1385

Pneumatic Tubes, etc. , Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by 361, 1333 · contracts authorized for Cincinnati, Ohio.. 1356

steam to operate, furnished from appropria-

tions for public buildings; payment

for...

715, 1392

Pocahontas, Ark., bridge authorized across Black River at... 178
Pocatello, Idaho,

construction of public building authorized

at...

681

terms of court at....

928, 1109

Pocatello National Forest, Idaho and Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250

lands added to......

919

Pocketbooks,

duty on leather...

68

Pocketknives,

duty on...

26

Pocomoke River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

937

Point Judith, R. I.,

appropriation for harbor of refuge ; con-

tracts...

632, 934

Point Loma, Cal.,

fog signal, etc., authorized at..

537

Point Pleasant, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building................... 1379

limit of cost increased for memorial struc-

ture at..

694

Pointe au Pelee, Lake Erie,

appropriation for maintenance of light-

vessel.....

755

Points,
duty on steel, lathed, machined, etc................ 28 Poisonous Foods, Drugs, etc.,

appropreitation for expenses preventing c sale. ., of....... 432, 1255 Poles,

duty on telegraph, etc....... Police Court, D. C.,
appropriation for salariés.......... for witness fees, jurors, etc.....

33
403, 995 404, 995

deficiency appropriation for witnessfees... moneys in, unclaimed for two years to be
deposited in the Treasury.. probation officers to be appointed by; du-
ties, etc...

1297 404 864

INDEX .

cxcvii

Police, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for major, officers, etc.....399,990

detail to enforce child labor law.... 399,990

for aid to National Bureau of Criminal

Identification.............

399,990

for fuel and repairs...... for contingent expenses..

399,990 399,990

for reconstructing cell corridors in sta-

tions......

991

for house of detention......

400, 991

for harbor patrol...

400, 991

Police Regulations, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for printing...... 783

Polishes, Shoe,

duty on...

12

Political Contributions for Elections ofRepre-

sentatives, provisions for giving publicity to........................... 822
Political Convicts, Alien,

not excluded, if offense did not involve

moral turpitude..

264

Polson Bay, Flathead Lake, Mont. , appropriation for improvement of........ 666

Polygamy, etc., prohibition of, required in constitution of'

Arizona..

569

of New Mexico...

550

Polygamy Prosecutions,

disqualifications for jurors in........

1166

Pomades,

duty on..

16

Pomelos,

duty on..

38

Ponca Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 280, 1069 Ponchatoula River, La.,

preliminary examination to be made of... 955

Pontiac, Ill.,

appropriation for public building........

1379

limit of cost; increased, public build-

ing...

677

·Pontiac, Mich.,
appropriation for public building........ Pool Balls,

.1379

duty on ivory, bone, etc......

66

Poor, D..C.,

appropriation for relief of the..

.411, 1002

for transportation of paupers................... 411, 1002 Poor Persons,

may enter or defend suits without prepay-

ing costs....

866

writs of error and appeals included ..... 866

affidavit of poverty required...

866

Poorhouse, D. C. (see Home for Aged and

Infirm, D. C.).

Poplar Bluff, Mo., bridge authorized across Black River at... 907

construction of public building at, author-

ized

682

Poppy Seed,

duty on..

37

oil, raw, boiled, or oxidized.

14

Population ofthe United States, census of, to be taken in 1910, etc.. schedules of inquiries..... timeunemployed , etc.........

1,227
3,227 4, 227

address of blind, deaf, and dumb ...... 4,227

enumeration of institutions.....

4, 227

nationality, etc., of foreign-born per-

Bons...

877

certified returns of, may be furnished

States, etc......

10

Porcelain Ware,

duty on decorated, etc.....

18

not decorated, etc...

18

Porcelain, Works in,

Page.

on free list, bysocieties, etc., for exhibition,

not for sale; conditions......

81

produced more than 100 years before im-

portation.....

82

Porch Blinds,

duty on wood, etc....

34

Porcupine Island, Me.,

appropriation for breakwater from Mount

Desert to; contracts...............

630, 933

Pork,

duty on fresh..

38

Port Arthur Ship Canal, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of SabineNeches Canal to Neches River...... 943
local contribution, maintenance, etc.. 944
Port Arthur, Tex.,

appropriation for public building ................ 706, 1379 Port Bolivar, Tex. ,

appropriation for improvement of channel

to..

649, 944

Port Chester, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Port Clinton, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor... 653

Port Eads Light-House Depot, La.,

transferred to New Orleans......

536

Port Henry, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

673

Port Huron, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of Black

River at...

655

terms of court at..

1115

Port Jefferson, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Port Jervis, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building.;

1379

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized................

686

Port Lavaca, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of channel from Pass Cavallo to........................................ 649

Port Orford, Oreg.,

made port of delivery.

579

Port Townsend, Wash.,

preliminary examination of ship canal,

Puget Sound and Oak Harbor, to be

made..

676

Port Washington, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 656

Port Wing, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

656, 947

Portage Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge, Lake Superior......................

655

Porter,

duty on.

41

Portfolios,

duty on leather..

68

Portland, Ark.,

time extended for bridging, Bayou Bar-

tholomew at....

190

Portland Cement,

177

duty on....

Portland, Ind.,

appropriation for public building.

1379

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized.............,

685

Portland, Me.,

appropriation for public building...

706

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, additional land, etc...

207

for public building, sprinkling streets

1294

cxcviii

INDEX .

Portland, Me.- Continued.

Page.

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made...

671

terms of court at.

1114

Portland, Oreg., appropriation for public building................. 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized

691.

Alaskan cases to circuit court of appeals to

be heard at San Francisco, Seattle, or 1135

may bridge Willamette River at Broadway. 1348

terms of court at....

1122

Portland, Oreg. , Customs District,

territory..

579

port of entry, Portland .

579

officers and residence..

580

Portemonnaies, etc.,

duty on, metal, silver, etc

67

Porto Rico,

appropriation for pay of Resident Com-

missioner...

473, 1175

for expenses...

473, 1176

for relief of shipwrecked American sea-

men in .

346, 1036

for mail equipments for...

362, 1334

for agricultural experiment stations . 438, 1262

experiments in coffee culture....

438

for quarantine system expenses...... 717, 1394

cases in which writs of error and appeals are

allowed to Supreme Court from

courts of.....

1157

included in census of 1910..

1

lands near San Juan granted to...

467

legislative appropriations for expenses, on

failure to provide for new fiscal year,

continued...

11

matters pertaining to government placed

under executive department desig-

nated by President...

11

reports from governor, etc., to be made to

executive department designated by

the President.

11

Porto Rico Regiment ofInfantry, appropriation for pay of officers.. for pay of enlisted men..

250, 1044 250, 1044

for care, etc., ofinsane soldiers ........ 724, 1055

Portrait of Chief Justice Fuller,

appropriation for procuring, for Supreme

Court robing room..

1427

Ports of Entry and Delivery,

entry, Astoria, Oreg..

579

Coos Bay, Oreg.

579

Portland, Oreg.

579

Yaquina, Oreg.

579

delivery, Ellensburg, Oreg.

579

Gardiner, Oreg..

579

Newport, Oreg..

579

Port Orford, Oreg..

579

subports of entry established, Baton Rouge,

La....

335

Birmingham, Ala..

1086

Eastport, Idaho...

467

Saint Andrews Bay, Fla.

1080

Scranton, Miss..

11

Portsmouth, N. H., appropriation for navy-yard, public works.. 614, 1274

may bridge Piscataqua River..

1362

terms of court at..

1119

Portsmouth, Ohio,

appropriation for public building....

1380

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized...

680

Portugal, appropriation for minister to..
for secretary of legation.....

337, 1027 337, 1028

Possessions, United States,

Page.

customs tariff schedules applicable to,

except Philippines, Guam, and

Tutuila....

11

Post-Card Albums,

duty on...

64

Post Cards,

duty on,. of United States scenery, etc.... 64

formerrate effective on previous orders

until October 1, 1909 ..

64

Post Cards, Foreign Government Stamped,

on free list; limitation..

79

Post Exchanges, Military,

appropriation for construction, mainte

nance, etc ....

255, 1050

buildings erected at private cost.. 255, 1050

Post-Office Building, D. C.,

appropriation for heating, care, etc.... 512, 1214

Post-Office Department,

appropriation for Postmaster General,

clerks, etc....

518, 1221

for engineers, watchmen, etc.. forchief inspector, etc..

519, 1221 519, 1221

for purchasing agent, clerks, etc.. 519, 1221

for attorneys, clerks, etc., division of Assistant Attorney-General...... 519, 1221
for First Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc...

519, 1222

for superintendent salaries and allow-

ances, etc..

519, 1222

for superintendent of appointments,

etc..

520, 1222

for superintendent city delivery, etc. 520, 1222 for Second Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc..

520, 1222

for superintendent railway adjustments,

etc......

520, 1222

for superintendent foreign mails, etc. 520, 1222

for General Superintendent Railway

Mail Service, etc...

520, 1222

for Third Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc..

520, 1222

for superintendent division of stamps,

etc...

520, 1222

forsuperintendent division of finance. 520, 1222

for superintendent division of classifi-

cation, etc.

520, 1222

for superintendent division of registered

mail, etc...

520, 1223

for per diem, assistant superintendents,

etc....

521

for superintendent division of money

orders, etc...

521, 1223

for Fourth Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc.....

521, 1223

for superintendent rural delivery, etc ... 521

for superintendent rural mails, etc..

1223

for superintendent division of dead let-

ters, etc....

521, 1223

for superintendent division of supplies,

etc..

521, 1223

for topographer, draftsmen, etc...... 521, 1223

for contingent expenses..

522, 1223

for ice machines..

522

for rent...

522, 1224

for Official Postal Guide..

522, 1224

for post-route maps..

522, 1224

postal service appropriations not to be

used for the Department...

522, 1224

for printing and binding for..

769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for postal service.. 224, 802, 812, 814, 1314, 1325, 1327

for Arthur M. Travers

801

for law books, etc......

801

for paying Court of Claims judgments

under...

807, 1319

3

INDEX .

cxcix

Post-Office Department- Continued.

Page.

part ofprinting allotment 1911, made avail-

able for Supreme Court.....

1448

Post-Office Inspectors,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc..... 519, 1221

for salaries....

356, 1328

for per diem; allowances; restriction . 356, 1328

Postal Notes,

Page.

issue authorized of money orders of fixed

denominations to be known as...... 1340

not to exceed $10 ...

1340

valid for six months at post offices..

1340

not transferable by indorsement..

1340

payment to cancel liability.

1340

forclerks, etc.; division headquarters. 356, 1328Postal Savings Cards and Stamps,

fortraveling expenses, etc....

356, 1328 preparation and use of; sales..

816

for livery hire, rural service..

356, 1328 Postal Savings Depositaries,

for expenses, division headquarters.. 356, 1328 board of trustees to control..

814

for rewards, etc....

356, 1328

composition; regulations, etc ....

814

for securing information...

356, 1328

to make annual report of administration,

Post Offices,

etc ....

815

appropriation for postmasters.......... 357, 1329

for assistant postmasters, first and second

class offices...

357, 1329

special stamps authorized for free trans-

mission of mail matter.

815

selection of post offices as.....................

815

for clerks, etc., first and second class

opening accounts; limitation...

815

offices....

357, 1329

issue of pass books, etc..

815

appointments and number restricted .. 359

deposits, minimum; restriction....

815

for mechanics, watchmen, etc ........ 359, 1331

for clerks in charge of contract stations 359, 1331

for substitute clerks, etc ...

359, 1331

savings cards and stamps for amounts

under $1 ..

815

preparation and sale of..

816

for temporary and auxiliary clerks.. 359, 1331 for separating mails, third and fourth

interest allowed ; maximum balance per-

mitted ...

816

class offices...

359, 1332

compensation to fourth-class post-

masters...

359

for unusual conditions...

360, 1332

withdrawals; payment of fees, etc., for

cashing, forbidden...

816

funds to be deposited in solvent banks;

interest...

816

discretionary appointments in smaller

cities...

360, 1332

for clerical services, third-class offices;

restrictions..

360, 1332

forrent, light, and fuel; leases; limit.. 360, 1332

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices......

360, 1332

reserved, to be kept by Treasurer..

816

security required from banks; distribu-

tion of deposits ....

816

withdrawals to pay depositors ...

816

for investment in Government securi-

ties......

817

residue to remain in banks..

817

for canceling machines; sum for pur-

application of interest and profits...

817

chases; rental contracts..

360, 1332

restriction on disposition of..

817

for mechanical and labor-eaving de-

sales of bonds to meet withdrawals.

817

vices......

360, 1333 meaning of "Territory" and "bank".

817

for city delivery..

361, 1333

deficiency appropriation for postmasters. 802, 812

for clerks, third-class offices...

812 1

compensatory time off, allowed for Sunday labor, in first and second class.... 1339

issue of 24 per cent bonds for issue to de-

positors; denominations ..

817

conditions; regulations.....

817

may be used for savings fund..

817

exempt from taxation....

817

designation of, as postal savings deposi-

tories....

815

not receivable as security for national-

bank circulation...

817

Post-Route Maps,

appropriation for expenses of preparing,

etc..

522, 1224

redemption of United States bonds for use

by savings fund ..

818

reissue to trustees...

818

Postage Stamp Albums, duty on..

subsequent redemption..

818

64 separation of accounts, etc.

818

Postage Stamps,

appropriation for manufacture, etc.... 364, 1337 deficiency appropriation for manufacture. 802

special, for free transmission of postal sav-

ings business...

815

general laws for safe-keeping, etc. , made

applicable.....

818

compensation allowed fourth-class post-

masters .:

818

presidential offices excluded .

818

Postage Stamps, Foreign, on free list...

appropriation for expenses of establishing,

79

etc..

818

Postal Cards,

appropriation for freight or expressage.. 362, 1335

for manufacture....

365, 1337

promulgation of regulations, etc..

818

postal penalties, etc., made applicable.... 818

faith of the United States pledged to pay

contracts with Government bureaus

restricted ..

365

for distribution expenses..

365

deposits......

819

payment of deposits under order of

court...

819

Postal Cars,

restriction on use of, unless sanitary and

sound.....

1335

appropriation for expenses of establishing,

etc...

818, 1340

rent for central office....

1340

no pay for use of wooden, unless approved

by Department...

1335

wooden, between adjoining steel cars... 1335

auditing accounts:....

1340

Postmaster-General to designate offices,

etc

1340

of steel construction required after July 1,

1916..

1335

to appoint necessary officers and em-

ployees ..

1340

Postal Guide, Official, appropriation for publication.......... 522, 1224

to make rules for deposits and with-

drawals, pass books, etc.....

1340

cc

INDEX .

Postal Service,

Page.

Office of Postmaster-General,

appropriation for advertising..

356, 1327

for rent, power, etc., repair shops and

supplies division ...

356, 1328

for post-office inspectors....

356, 1328

for per diem inspectors in the field 356, 1328

for salaries and expenses..

356, 1328

for livery hire, etc. , installing rural

routes .

356, 1328

for expenses, division headquarters.. 356, 1328

for rewards, etc..

356, 1328

for testing labor-saving devices, etc.. 356, 1328 for travel and miscellaneous expenses 357, 1329

Office ofFirst Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for postmasters..

357, 1329

at Saint Louis, Mo., increased ..

1329

for assistants, first and second class

offices .

357, 1329

appointments restricted .

357, 1329

for clerks, etc., first and second class

offices ..

357, 1329

appointments restricted.

359

for mechanics, watchmen, etc.... .359, 1331

for clerks in charge of contract sta-

tions.

359, 1331

for substitute clerks.......

359, 1331

for temporary and auxiliary clerks... 359, 1331

for separating mails, third and fourth

class offices...

359, 1332

allowance to fourth- class postmasters.. 359

for unusual conditions.....

360, 1332

special allowance for smaller offices

and in Alaska .

360, 1332

for clerical services, third-class offices;

allotment..

360, 1332

for rent, light, and fuel ; term; limit.. 360, 1332

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices ..

360, 1332

for canceling machines; purchase; rental

terms .

360, 1332

for mechanical and labor-saving de-

vices....

361, 1333

for assistant superintendents, salary and

allowance division......

361

for city delivery; carriers........... limitation...
substitutes, etc..... new offices; carriers...

361, 1333 1333
361, 1333 361, 1333

allowances; mechanics...

361, 1333

marine service, Detroit; contract au-

thorized..

361

Detroit River service

1333

contracts for canceling machines, etc.. 1333

incidental expenses .

361, 1333

special delivery.........

361, 1333

for travel and miscellaneous..

361, 1333

Office of Second Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral ,

appropriation for transportation, star routes 361

discontinuance if duplicated by rural

delivery.

361

Alaska emergency service..

361

for transportation, star routes in Alaska. 1333

emergency service ....

1333

for steamboat, etc. , service ..

361, 1333

for mail-messenger service .

361, 1333

for pneumatic tubes, etc...

361, 1333

for wagon service....

362, 1334

for mail bags, etc.; equipments, Alaska,

etc ....

362, 1334

examination of repair shops...

362

for labor, repair shops...

362, 1334

for equipment shop, Chicago, Ill.... 362, 1334

Postal Service-Continued.

Page.

Office of Second Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral-Continued.

appropriation for mail locks and keys,

etc.; labor, lock repair shop... 362, 1334

for railroad routes.

362, 1334

reduction of rates to land grant roads.. 362

expenses of weighing mails..

1334

commission to examine, etc. , cost of

handling second-class mail.

1334

for expenses of commission...

1334

for obtaining information of railroads

carrying mails...

362, 1335

for freight on postal cards, supplies,

etc...

362, 1335

for post-office car service..

362, 1335

quality of cars required . restriction on wooden cars.

362, 1335 1335

steel construction after July 1 , 1916... 1335

for Railway Mail Service...

363, 1335

annual leaves to railway postal clerks

and repair shops employees. .... 1336 for electric and cable car service..... 364, 1336

compensation ; limit, interurban serv-

ice ..

364, 1336

unusual conditions; usefor wagonserv-

ice permitted .
for foreign mail transportation..... clerks on steamships..

364, 1336 364, 1337 364, 1337

pier transfers, New York and San

Francisco, etc......

364, 1337

for assistant superintendent foreign

mails, New York...

364, 1337

for balances due foreign countries.... 364, 1337

for travel and miscellaneous expenses 364, 1337

Office ofThird Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for postage stamps .. .... 364, 1337

for stamped envelopes and wrappers. 364, 1337

printingnames on, prohibited, etc..

364

for distribution, etc...

365, 1337

for postal cards...

365, 1337

restriction on contracts with Govern-

ment bureau, etc..

365

for distribution..

365

forship, steamboat, and way letters.. 365, 1337

forindemnity, lost registered letters, etc.;

limit, etc.. third and fourth class matter..

365, 1337 1337

international registered letters, etc. 365, 1337

payment for prior years....

1338

for counsel second-class mail suits .. 365, 1338

for travel and miscellaneous expenses 365, 1338 Office of Fourth Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral,

appropriation for stationery.

365, 1338

for official and registry envelopes ; dis-

tribution ...

365, 1338

for money-order supplies .

365, 1338

for supplies, registry, etc., service... 365, 1338

for city delivery supplies..

365, 1338

forpostmarking stamps, etc.. for letter balances, etc....

366, 1338 366, 1338

for wrapping paper, twine, etc....... 366, 1338

for facing slips, etc. for miscellaneous supplies..

366, 1338 366, 1338

for rural delivery supplies..

366, 1339

for expenses, shipment of supplies,

etc..

366, 1339

for intaglio seals, foreign mails..

366, 1339

for star routes, except Alaska.......

1339

discontinued where served by rural

delivery.

1339

for rural delivery service....................... 366, 1339

substation clerks..

366, 1339

carrier on Lake Winnepesaukee.

1339

INDEX .

cci

Postal Service- Continued.

Page.

Office of Fourth Assistant Postmaster Gen-

eral-Continued .

appropriation for travel and miscellaneous

expenses

366, 1339

posting advertisement of mail lettings

modified..

366

return of undelivered second-class

: mail publications......

366

extension ofmail routes under contract

permitted; limit..

1339

punishment for sending in the mails.

words inciting arson, murder.or

· assassination...

1339

allowance of compensatory time off

for Sunday labor in first and second

class offices....:

1339

computation ofmonthly salaries... 1339

forexpenses of establishing postal savings depositories, payable fromTreasury. 1340
permissible marks on third and fourth class matter to include "Please do
not open until Christmas," etc.... 1340

for supplying.deficiencies in postal

revenues .

366, 1340

'issue of postal notes authorized ; de-

nominations, etc....

1340

for paying claims of letter carriers for

overtime..

865

deficiency appropriation for foreign

mails.....

224,802, 1327

for city delivery:.

224, 812, 812, 1327

for steamboat, etc., service.

224

for rural delivery..

224,

225, 812,812, 1325, 1325, 1327

for railroad routes.

224, 812, 1325

for star routes..

224, 812, 1325

for rewards....

224, 1325

for indemnity, lost registered mail.

224,

812, 814, 1325, 1327,

international..

1325

for postmasters..

225,802, 812, 1325, 1327

for special delivery

225, 802, 1325

for clerk hire third-class offices.. 225, 1325

for separating mails...

225, 812

for canceling machines..

225, 1325

for Railway Mail Service..

225, 814

for postage stamps, etc....

802

for stamped envelopes, etc....

802

for postmarking stamps, etc.........

802

for People's Gas and Electric Company,

Burlington, Iowa ...

802

for rent, light, and fuel..

812,1325

for New York, N. Y., letter carriers .

1314

for messenger service..

1,325

for shipment of supplies .:

1325, 1325

census mail matter to be transmitted free

under penalty frank..

10

penalty for unlawful use of frank...

10

.city delivery allowed by consolidation of

two offices in any city, etc. , having $10,000 revenue .. commission to investigate second-class mail matter, authorized... letters undelivered, to be returned to writer at time requested, etc.... money orders, mailing notice from issuing
to paying office repealed.... pneumatic-tube service authorized for
Cincinnati..

911 1458 630 " 415 1356

registered mail, receipt given on delivery

only when requested...

416

receipts from steam furnished for pneu-

matic tubes, to be credited to fuel,

etc., public buildings..

121

use in Department of appropriations for,

prohibited....

522, 1224

Postmarking, etc., Stámps, Postal Service, appropriation for...... deficiency appropriation for.......
Postmaster-General, appropriation for, clerks, etc .. for chief inspector, etc...

Page 366, 1338
802
518, 1221 519, 1221

for purchasing agent, clerks, etc..... 519, 1221 for attorneys, etc., division of Assistant

Attorney-General ..

519, 1221

for postal service under..................................... 356, 1327

for advertising...

356, 1327

for rent of buildings for repair shop, sup-

plies, etc....

356, 1328

for power, light, etc.....

356, 1328

for inspectors, etc....

... 356, 1328

for testing labor-saving devices.... 356, 1328

fortravel and miscellaneous expenses. 357, 1329

designated on board of trustees to con-

trol, etc., postal savings deposi-.

taries...

814

duties extended over postal savings de-

positories.....

1340

may designate postmasters to issue postal

notes..

1340

member of board to approve plans, etc.,

for Washington post-office building. 698

pneumatic tube service for Cincinnati to

be advertised for by.....,

1356

to prepare special stamps for free trans-

mission of postal savings mail mat-

ter...

815

Postmaster, House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for, assistant, money-order

clerk, messengers, etc ... for horses and mail wagons...

477, 1180 477, 1180

for messengers.......

....... 182

for additional messenger.

182

deficiency appropriation for messengers... 128

Postmaster, Senate,

appropriationfor, assistant, carriers, etc. 471, 1174

for horses and mail wagons....

472, 1175

Postmasters, appropriation for compensation.. increased, Saint Louis, Mo...

357, 1329 1329

for assistant, first and second class

offices ..

357, 1329

appointment and assignment lim-

ited..

357, 1329

deficiency appropriation for compensation. 225, 802, 1325, 1327

compensation to fourth class, for postal

savings business....

818

presidential offices excluded ...

818

duties of, in postal savings depositaries.... 815

Posts,

duty on iron or steel .

22

paving..

33

wood, rough-hewn, etc.

33

Posts, Military (see Military Posts).

Potash,

duty on bichromate and chromate of...

16

bitartrate of..

12

caustic, or hydrate of.

16

chlorate of....

16

cyanide of potassium.

16

hydriodate, iodide, and iodate of..

16

nitrate of.

16

prussiate of, red ..

16

prussiate of, yellow....

16

on free list, carbonate of

78

0000000000000

crude or black salts .

78

hydrate of, not refined .

78

muriate of..

78

caustic, not refined..

78

nitrate of, or saltpeter..........

78

sulphate of....

78

ccii

INDEX .

Potash Fertilizers,

Page.

appropriation for investigating source of

supply of, within United States .... 1256 Potash Salis,

geological researches of conditions favor-

able to presence of ..

1418

Potassa,

duty on tartrate of......

12

Potassium,

duty on, and alloys ..

29

cyanide of.....

16

Potatoes,

duty on .

" 37

Potomac Electric Power Company, D. C.,

Commissioners ' empowered to settle arc

lighting contract with ..

982

Potomac Park, D, C.,

appropriation for care and improvement

of..

726, 1403

for constructing park lodge..

1403

Potomac River,

appropriation for improvement of, Alex-

andria, Va.....

639, 937

for improvement of, Lower Cedar Point,

Md ..

639

forimprovement of, Washington, D. C. 639, 937

preliminary examination of, to be made at

Colonial Beach, Va....

954

"Potomac,'" U.S. S.,

appropriation for repairs....

621

Pots, duty on porous carbon, for electric batter-

ies...

19

Pottawatomie Indians, Kans. and Wis.,

agreement with, for commutation of an-

nuities, ratified .

289

amount accepted.....

289

rate and payment of interest ..

289

Pottawatomie Indians, Wis.,

appropriation for support, etc.

288

available until expended .

1076

Potter, Marie G. ,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318

Pottery Paper,

duty on.

61

Pottery, Works in,

on free list, by societies, etc., for exhibi-

tion, not for sale; conditions.........

81

produced more than 100 years before im-

portation.....

82

Pottstown, Pa., appropriation for public building................... 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized.....

691

Pouches,

duty on tobacco...................

70

Poultry,

duty on .

38

Pound, etc., D. C.,

appropriation for building, on public space

on James Creek Canal ...

994

Pound, Troy,

standard, of the Bureau of Standards to be

the authority for coinage....

1354

series of weights conforming to standard, of

Bureau of Standards, required at

mints and assay offices...

1354

Powder (see also Explosives),

on free list, curry .

75

Powders,

duty on ink.

14

Powell National Forest, Utah, appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1250
Power Boats, Postal Service, appropriation formail transportationby. 361, 1333

8888

Power, etc., Sites, Indian Reservations,

Page.

appropriation for investigations and sur-

veys for...

1059

Power Plant, Capitol and Congressional Build-

ings, use for, of House fuel, etc. , fund.......
of Senate fuel, etc., fund...
Power Privileges,

1180 1175

leases for, under reclamation irrigation

systems; terms, etc....

930

longer term allowed on Rio Grande pro-

ject....

931

Power Sites,

temporary withdrawal of public lands to be

reserved for........

847

Prairie Florer,

removal of body from Texas to be paid for

from sum for monument to her

mother, Cynthia Ann Parker ...... 797 Precious Metals,

8*8888

appropriation for collecting statistics of. 492, 1194

Precious Stones,

duty on, artificial .

68

cut but not set.

68

doublets.......

68

imitation.

68

not otherwise provided for ..

68

on free list, rough, uncut, etc.

75

Preparations,

duty on spirituous .

40

Preparations, Medicinal,

duty on, not specially provided for................ 16

Preparations, Toilet,

duty on..

16

Prescott National Forest, Ariz.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 428, 1251 President ofthe United States,
appropriation for compensation..... 482, 1184 for Secretary of, assistants, etc ... .482, 1184

for securing information to aid in admin-

istering tariff and customs laws.. 703, 1363

report on wool, etc., by tariff board, if

established by law.

1363

for inquiries into methods of transacting

government business in departments

and establishments...

703, 1363

for travel expenses of...

727, 1404

for protection of person of.

748, 1424

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses of.

119

for securing information for administer-

ing customs laws .

119

for commission to investigate issue of stocks and bonds by railroads ... 774, 1291

appointment to be made by, ofcommission

in relation to universal peace............. 885

Commission of Fine Arts ...

371

commission to investigate issue of stocks

and bonds by railroad corporations.. 556

commission to investigate second-class

mail transportation, etc

1459

commission to report on advisability,

etc., of permanent Army maneuver-

ing ground, etc. , near Chickamauga

Park..

1457

also on proposed donation of lands in

Tennessee for militia maneuvering

encampments, etc.

1457

commissioner to act with one on part of

Texas to re-mark Clark boundary

lines with New Mexico...

1455

delegates to International Congress 'on

Alcoholism ...

1034

five additional circuit judges, for Com-

merce Court, etc..

540, 1147

INDEX.

cciii

President ofthe United States- Continued. appointment to be made by, of three commissioners to centennial cele-
bration of Perry's victory on Lake Erie .... three members of commission to Mexican centennial celebration authorized to enter into contracts for completion of Panama Canal.... constitution of Arizona to be presented to,
for approval.... of New Mexico to be presented to, for ap-
proval.. contracts with Choctaws and Chickasaws
for legal services subject to approval of....
may appoint John K. Barton, rear-admiral,
retired, Navy... Warren C. Beach, captain of infantry,
Army, retired; no pay, etc. John M. Blankenship, ensign, Navy, re-
tired..
Guy K. Calhoun, professor of mathematics, Navy..
Frank de 1. Carrington, major, Army, retired..
Edward Forbes Greene, lieutenant, Navy, retired...
Kenneth McAlpine, commander, Navy. Frederick W. Olcott, passed assistant
surgeon, Navy, retired...
M. H. Plunkett, passed assistant engineer, Navy, retired ...
James H. Reid, commander, Navy, retired .
William H. Walsh, ensign, Navy, retired.
may detail naval officers for service at marine school....
may drop from rolls Army officers absent three months without leave, etc...
may temporarily withdraw lands from entry, etc., to be reserved for waterpower sites, etc ...
continuance until revoked ..
member ofboard on approval ofplans, etc.,
for Washington post-office building. on buildings for Departments of State,
Justice, and Commerce and Labor.. pardoning power, etc., not impaired by
law for parole of prisoners. reclamation fund advances to be approved
by.......
projects to be examined by engineer board appointed by..
approval required of.. new projects require direct order of, ap-
proving.. to announce admission of Arizona as a
State by proclamation.. of New Mexico as a State by proclama-
tion.....
to appoint chief and two assistant chief inspectors of locomotive boilers..
general appraisers of merchandise. to ascertain if countries impose discrimina-
tionsagainst United States products. proclamation announcing minimum
tariff, if discriminations not made.. restoring maximum tariff when dis-
criminations are made.....
authorized to employ persons to procure information ...
to convey to Porto Rico lands, etc., near San Juan.

Page.
1081 882 130 571 560
1070 352 910 899 352 .600 905 844 903 1360 829 1079 1353 894
847 847 698 698 821 835 835 835 835 572 561 914 98 82 82 83 83 467

· President ofthe United States-Continued.
to designate custodian of property-in Executive Mansion.....
department to have charge of Porto Rico matters .
to fill vacancies in Lincoln Memorial Commission ..
to give notice of termination of commercial agreements underTariffAct of 1897.
to invite States to send delegates to Congress of Hygiene and Demography..
International Refrigeration Congress to meet in United States.

Page. .773
11 898 83 873 886

foreign nations to participate in Panama-

Pacific Exposition ..

1454

conditions precedent..

1454

toassemble fleetsat Hampton Roads on

the way to Panama Canal opening.. 1289

International Congress on Social Insurance to meet in United States...... 1034

to issue Army and Navy stores, etc., to sufferers from Costa Rica earth-

quake.......

367

to make rules, etc., for filling vacancies in

grade ofsecond lieutenants, Army.. 1045

to place Civil Engineer Robert E. Peary on

retired list as rear-admiral, CivilEn-

gineer Corps, Navy.....

1346

Presidio del Norte, Merico,

bridge authorized across Rio Grande to El

Oro from....

853

Presidio Military Reservation, Cal. ,

appropriation for improving grounds ...... 721

Presque Isle Peninsula, Pa.,

fish hatchery, etc., on, by Pennsylvania

authorized .

262

Press Boards or Press Paper,

duty on..

63

Press Cloth, Fair,

duty on.

67

Presses, Printing,

duty on.

32

PribilofIslands, Alaska,

killing of scals on, under control of Secre-

tary of Commerce and Labor....

326

employment of natives...

327

declared a special reservation..

327

punishment for unlawful landing on.. 327

unauthorized killing of seals on, unlawful.. 327

exception to natives for food , etc...... 327

killing female or young seals on, unlawful;

exception..

328 .

punishment for...

328

additional officials for protecting seal fish-

eries, etc., on.

328

purchase of present leases for sealing on,

property, etc.....

328

establishment of depots for supplies, etc.... 328

provisions for transportation of supplies to, 1

etc.

.328

furnishing necessaries of life to natives of... 328

Princeton, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1380

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..".

685

Princeton, Ind.,

appropriation for public building........ 1380

Princeton Place NW , D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extension of. 325

appropriation for expenses.

325

Principal of United States Bonds and Certifi-

cales ofIndebtedness,

payable in gold coin.....

192

Printed Matter,

duty on, not specially provided for........ 64

cciv

INDEX.

Printing Investigation Commission, continued; appointment of members....
appropriation for expenses....

Page. 1444
1444

Printing Paper,

duty on...

61

countervailing duty on imports from

country imposing export charges,

etc..

61

Printing Presses,

duty on.

32

Prints,

duty on, lithographic ...

62

photogelatin..

64

on free list, lithographic, for educational

institutions, etc.; límit...

74

Prioleau, A. P.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses, House of Representa-

tives.

806

Prison Commission, International,

appropriation forannual subscription, etc.. 342

Prisoners, D. C.,

appropriation for support of.................

405

for support of jail, etc...

996

for transporting, to workhouse..

407,999

forpayments to abandoned families of... 997

deficiency appropriationfor support of.... 209, 223,788, 1299

release on probation, etc..

864

tobereleased intheDistrict on expirationof

sentence...

464

Prisoners, United States Courts,

appropriation for support of, etc .... 750, 1427

deficiency appropriation for support of. 215,

224, 1325

parole allowed for good conduct.

819

Prisons, United States (see also Penitentia-

ries),

appropriation for inspection, etc., of, and

prisoners...

748, 1424

Private Claims, House of Representatives, appropriation for clerks preparing digest of. 474

Private Claims, Senate,

deficiency appropriation for preparing

record and index of..

803

Private Land Claims, deficiency appropriation for surveying.... 222

Prizes,

on free list, medals of gold, etc. , received

as..

77

Prizes, under Federal Laws,

jurisdiction of United States courts, exclu-

sive of State in, and condemnation of

prize property:

1161

Probation System, D. C.,

appropriationforofficers, etc...

994

appointment of probation officers; salaries,

etc....

864

volunteers without pay..

864

certain convicts placed under supervision

of officer without imprisonment.... 864

report on expiration of term ; decision of

court..

865

modification of term; revocation, rearrest,

etc......

865

allowance for expenses, etc..

865

appropriation for expenses.

865

Proceedings in Congress,

appropriationforreporting, House of Repre-

sentatives...

477, 1180

forreporting, Senate....

473, 1175

Producers ofLeaf Tobacco, may sellleaftobacco to manufacturers with-

out being considered dealers....

110

no restrictions on, selling their own leaf

tobacco......

111

Production, Cost of,

Page.

appropriation for securing information of,

relating to articles affecting tariff,

etc.....

703, 1363

Professions, Learned,

aliens belonging to, not subject to contract

labor exclusion .

· 264

Professors for Colleges, etc., Alien, contract labor exclusion not applicable to .
Prohibition ofIntoxicants, Hawan,
to be submitted to special election..
appropriation for expenses. Prohibitions, Export,
minimum tariff on imports from countries imposing no, onshipments to United States.
proclamation announcing, to be issued..
Properties, Theatrical, on free list, for temporary exhibition; limitations..

264 878 878 .
82 82
78

88888

Property, Abandoned, etc., jurisdiction of Court of Claims, to hear and determine claims for captured...... return ofproceeds to owner. statute oflimitations removed..

1136 1140 1140

Property Clerk's Office, D. C. (see also Pur-

chasing Officer, D. C.),

appropriation for..

374

Property Takenfrom Confederate Soldiers, time extended for presenting claims for... 883

Property Yard, D. C., transfer ofReservation 185 as, authorized.. 383

Prostitution (see also White Slave Traffic Act),

exclusion of aliens coming into United

States for purpose of..

264

bringingpersonsin for; orimmoral pur-

pose..

264

importation of aliens for, or any immoral

use forbidden........

264

punishment for, harboring, etc..

264

jurisdiction .

265

deportation of alien inmate of, orconnected

with, house of..

265

employed in house of, dance hall, or

similar resort....

265

assisting, protecting, etc., prostitutes.. 265

punishment for alien deported for, etc., at-

tempting to return....

265

aliens convicted of, to be returned to coun-

try of origin after expiration of sen-

tence...

265 .

Prostitution, D. C.,

pandering defined and punishments pro-

vided for.....

833

Protecting Public Lands, etc.,

appropriation for expenses..

739, 1415

Providence Hospital, Washington, D. C.,

appropriation for isolating ward.

403, 994

for support of destitute patients in.... 731, 1407

for heating, lighting, and power plant.. 1408

Providence, R. 1.,

appropriation for improvement of river and

harbor, maintenance, etc....... 632, 1406-

contribution by City required .

632

preliminary examination of, to be made of

river and harbor.....

953

terms of court at.....

1123

Providence River, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts, etc...

632, 1406

Provincetown, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 632

Provisions, Army,

appropreitact.ion for subsistence supplies,251, 1045

deficiency appropriation for....

1300

INDEX .

CCV

Provisions, Marine Corps, appropriation for.............
deficiency appropriation for.

Pago.
625, 1285 .......... 1305

Proavpipsrioopnrsi,atNiaovnyf,or.

619, 1278

profit from ship stores allowed, to be

eenxlpiesnteddemdefno.r..a.musement, etc., of 619

deficiency appropriation for............

221 ,

791, 810, 1322, 1326

for ice, Guantanamo, Cuba..

1303

for issues to Medical Department .

1304

Prune Juice or Wine,

duty on..

41

Prunelles,

88888

duty on...

38

Prunes,

duty on..

38

Pruning Knives,

duty on..

26

Prussian Blue,

duty on.

15

Prussic Acid,

on free list..

71

Public Buildings, appropriation for Supervising Architect,

executive officer, superintendents,

engineers, etc..

487, 1189

for Abbeville, S. C.

1364

for Aberdeen, Wash.

1364

for Alameda, Cal....

1364

for Albany, Ga...

703

for Albany, Oreg..

1364

for Albion, Mich..

1364

for Albuquerque, N. Mex.

1364

for Alliance, Nebr.....

1365

for Alliance, Ohio..

1365

for Alpena, Mich...

1365

for Alton, Ill..

703

for Amarillo, Tex...

1365

for Amsterdam, N. Y.

1365

for Ann Arbor, Mich..

1365

for Anniston, Ala........

1365

for Anoka, Mich...

1365

for Antigo, Wis....

1365

for Appleton, Wis.

1365

for Ardmore, Okla...

1365

for Argenta, Ark..

1365

for Arkadelphia, Ark.

1365

for Arkansas City, Kans..

1365

for Asbury Park, N. J...

1365

for Ashland, Ky..

1365

for Ashland, Ohio.

1365

for Ashtabula, Ohio..

703, 1365

for Athens, Ohio....

703

for Athol, Mass....

1365

for. Atlanta, Tex...

1365

for Auburn, N. Y..

1365

for Augusta, Ga.; exchange of site with

City, etc..

1365

for Aurora, Nebr.................................

1366

for Austin, Tex.....

1366

for Bakersfield, Cal..

1366

for Baltimore, Md., immigrant station... .1366

for Bangor, Me.

704

for Barnesville, Ga..

1366

for Barre, Vt.......

1366

for Bartow, Fla....

1366

for Basin, Wyo...

1366

for Bath, Me..

1366

for Bay City, Tex .

1366

for Bayonne, N. J..

1366

for Beardstown, Ill...

1366

for Beatrice, Nebr..

1366

for Beaver Falls, Pa..

1366

for Bedford, Pa......

1366

Public Buildings-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Beeville, Tex.

1366

for Bellaire, Ohio.....

1366

for Belleville, Ill ..

1366

for Bellingham, Wash..

704, 1366

for Belton, Tex....

1366

for Bennettsville, S. C...

1366

for Berkeley, Cal..

1366

for Berlin, N. H...

1366

for Bethlehem, Pa.....

1366

for Beverly, Mass..

1367

for Big Rapids, Mich.

1367

for Big Stone Gap, Va.

1367

for Billings, Mont...

1367

for Birmingham, Ala..

1367

for Bismarck, N. Dak..

1367

for Blackwell, Okla..

1367

for Bloomington, Ind..

1367

for Blue Island, Ill..........

1367

for Bonham, Tex...

1367

for Boston, Mass., appraisers' stores....... 1367

customhouse...

704, 1367

for Bowling Green, Ky..

1367

for Boyne City, Mích....

1367

for Bozeman, Mont..

1367

for Braddock, Pa....

1367

for Bradford, Pa..

1367

for Brattleboro, Vt ..

1367

for Brazil, Ind .

1367

for Brigham City, Utah.

1367

for Bristol, Conn..

1367

for Bristol, Pa. ....

1367

for Bristol, R. I ..

1368

for Bronx, N. Y., post-office . for Brookhaven, Miss..

1368 704, 1368

for Bryan, Tex ..

1368

for Buckhannon, W. Va...

1368

for Buffalo, Wyo.....

1368

for Burlington, N. C.

1368

for Cadillac, Mich...

1368

for Cambridge, Ohio.

1368

for Camden, S. c .

1368

for Canandaigua, N. Y..

1368

for Canton, Ill .

1368

for Canton, Miss...

1368

for Carbondale, Pa.

704, 1368

for Caribou, Mé........ for Carnegie, Pa ..

........ 1368 1368

for Catlettsburg, Ky..

704, 1368

for Chadron, Nebr .

1368

for Chambersburg, Pa .

1368

for Chanute, Kans...

1368

for Charleroi, Pa.

1368

for Charles City, Iowa.. for Charleston, W. Va .
rent....

1368 *704, 1368 704, 1368

for Charlotte, Mich.

1369

for Charlotte, N. C ..

1369

for Chelsea, Mass.

704, 1369

for Chicago, Ill., post-office site..

1369

for Chico, Cal...

1369

for Cicero, Ill ..

1369

for Clarksdale, Miss .

1369

for Clay Center, Kans....

1369

for Cleburne, Tex.. for Cleveland, Ohio, rent. for Cody, Wyo.. for Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.. for Coffeyville, Kans . for Collinsville, Ill .
for Colorado Springs, Colo.... for Columbia, S. C.
for Columbus, Ind . for Columbus, Ohio .
rent...

1369 704 1369 1369 1369 1369 1369 1369 1369 1369 * 1369

for Concord, N. H.

704

ccvi

INDEX .

Public Buildings-Continued.

Pago.

appropriation for Conneaut, Ohio..

1369

for Connellsville, Pa..

1369

for Cookeville, Tenn .

1369

for Cordele, Ga..

1369

for Corpus Christi, Tex ..

1369

for Cortland , N. Y.

1369

for Council Bluffs, Iowa. rent..

704, 1369 1369

for Covington, Tenn..

1369

for Crowley, La..

1370

for The Dalles, Oreg.

1370

for Danbury, Conn.

1370

for Danville, Ill ... for Danville, Va., rent.

704, 1370 1370

for Darlington, S. C ..

1370

for Dayton, Ohio ...

704, 1370

acquisition of new site authorized .

704

for De Land, Fla..

1370

for De Soto, Mo ..

1370

for Del Rio, Tex..

1370

for Delavan, Wis.

1370

for Denison, Tex..

1370

for Denver, Colo. , post office .

704, 1370

for Des Moines, Iowa..

704

for Dickinson, N. Dak.

1370

for Dothan, Ala..

704

for Douglas, Ariz.

1370

for Dowagiac, Mich..

1370

for Dublin, Ga..

1370

for Dubojs, Pa..

1370

for Duluth, Minn .

1370

for Dunkirk, N. Y.

1370

for Duquoin, Ill..

1370

for Durango, Colo .

1370

for Dyersburg, Tenn .

1370

for Eagle Pass, Tex....

1370

for Easton, Pa..

704, 1370

for East Orange, N. J.

1370

for East Pittsburg, Pa .

1370

for Edwardsville, Ill ..

1370

for Ellensburg, Wash.

1371

for Ellsworth, Me....

1371

for El Paso, Tex...

1371

for El Reno, Okla..

1371

for Elwood, Ind .

1371

for Elyria, Ohio..

1371

for Enid, Okla .

704,1371

for Ennis, Tex ..

1371

for Ensley, Ala..

1371

for Eufaula, Ala..

1371

for Eureka, Cal ..

704

for Eureka Springs, Ark .

1371

for Evanston, Ill ..

1371

for Everett, Wash.

1371

for Excelsior Springs, Mo.

1371

for Falls City, Nebr ..

1371

for Faribault, Minn .

1371

for Fayetteville, Tenn ..

1371

for Fernandina, Fla

705

for Florence, Ala..

1371

for Fordyce, Ark..

1371

for Fort Atkinson, Wis..

1371

for Fort Collins, Colo ..

1371

for Fort Dodge, Iowa .

1371

rent..

705, 1371

for Fort Morgan, Colo ..

1371

for Franklin, La.

1371

for Franklin , Va..

1371

for Frederick, Md.

1371

for Fremont, Ohio .

1371

for Frostburg, Md ..

1372

for Fulton, Kv..

1372

for Fulton, Mo.

1372

for Gadsden, Ala..

1372

for Gaffney, S. C

1372

Public Buildings-Continued. appropriation for Gainesville, Fia.. for Galveston, Tex....

Page. 705
1372

for Garden City, Kans.. for Gardiner, Me... for Gary, Ind.

1372 1372 1372

for Gastonia, N. C..
for Georgetown, Ky . for Gettysburg, Pa.. for Glens Falls, N. Y for Globe, Ariz.. for Goshen, Ind .

1372 1372 1372 1372 1372 1372 .

for Gouverneur, N. Y.
for Granite City, Ill.. for Great Bend, Kans..

1372 1372 1372

for Great Falls, Mont .. for Greenfield, Mass...

705, 1372 1372

for Green River, Wyo...

1372

for Greensburg, Pa.. for Greenwood, Miss for Grenada, Miss..

705, 1372 705, 1372
1372

for Griffin, Ga... for Grinnell, Iowa.

* 1372 1372

for Gulfport, Miss . for Guthrie, Okla.

705 1372

for Hackensack, N. J.. for Hallowell, Me. for Hammond, La..

1372 1372 1373

for Hampton, Va..

1373

for Hanford, Cal .

1373

for Hanover, Pa.

1373

for Harrisburg, Pa ..
for Hattiesburg, Miss. for Hendersonville, N. C .. for Hiawatha, Kans... for Hillsboro, Tex.... for Hillsdale, Mich .....

1373 705 1373 1373 1373 1373

for Hilo, Hawaii..

1373

for Holdrege, Nebr

1373

for Holland, Mich.

1373

for Holly Springs, Miss . for Holton, Kans...

1373 1373

for Homestead, Pa..

1373

for Honolulu, Hawaii.

1373

for Humboldt, Tenn..

1373

for Huntingdon, Pa..

1373

for Huntington, Ind for Huntington, W. Va... for Huntsville, Tex ..

1373 1373 1373

for Huron, S. Dak .

1374

for Idaho Falls, Idaho .

1374

for Independence, Mo.

1374

for Ishpeming, Mich... for Jackson, Ky. for Jackson, Mich .

1374 1374 1374

for Jackson, Ohio .

1374

for Jamestown, N. Dak.. for Jasper, Ala.. for Jellico, Tenn . for Jennings, La............

1374 1374 1374 1374

for Jersey City, N. J.

1374

for Johnstown, Pa..

1374

for Juneau, Alaska, executive mansion.. 1374

post-office and customhouse..

1374

for Kalispell, Mont...

1374

for Kansas City, Kans., post-office . 705, 1374

rent .

1374

for Kearney, Nebr .

705

for Keene, N. H..

1374

for Key West, Fla., marine hospital.

1374

for Kokomo, Ind ..

1374

for Laconia, N. H.

1374

for La Fayette, La...

1374

for Lagrange, Ga....... for La Junta, Colo... for Lake Charles, La..

705, 1374 1374 705

Public Buildings-Continued . appropriation for Lake City, Minn.. for Lancaster, Ky... for Lancaster, Pa . for Lander, Wyo . for Lansing, Mich... for Laporte, Ind . ..... for La Salle, Ill... for Las Cruces, N. Mex... for Las Vegas, N. Mex... for Laurens, S. C.. for Lead, S. Dak . for Lewiston, Idaho . for Lexington, N. C. for Lexington, Va.... for Lincoln, Nebr . for Little Falls, Minn . for Logan, Ohio .. for London, Ky. for Long Beach, Cal . for Long Branch, N. J. for Longview, Tex.... for Lorain, Ohio.... for Los Angeles, Cal., rent . for Lumberton, N. C.... for Lynchburg, Va., rent . for Macomb, Ill ... for Macon, Mo.. for Madison, S. Dak . for Madison, Wis...
for Manchester, Conn. for Mandan, N. Dak.. for Manistee, Mich .
for Manitowoc, Wis ... for Mansfield, Ohio....
for Maquoketa, Iowa.... for Marion, Ohio . for Marion, S. C ...... for Marlboro, Mass.... for Martin, Tenn ..
for Maryville, Mofor Maryville, Tenn . for Massillon, Ohio..... for Mattoon, Ill. for McComb, Miss . forMcPherson, Kans... for Medford, Oreg.. for Media, Pa.. for Mena, Ark.. for Mexico, Mo .. for Miami, Fla.... for Middlesboro, Ky.. for Middletown, Conn . for Middletown, N. Y....
for Miles City, Mont.. for Milledgeville, Ga..... for Millville, N. J. for Mineral Wells, Tex.. for Mishawaka, Ind ... for Missoula, Mont .
for Moline, Ill .. for Monongahela, Pa.. for Monroe, Wis.. for Montevideo, Minn.. for Morgantown, W. Va... for Moscow, Idaho... for Moundsville, W. Va.. for Mount Vernon, Ill..
for Mount Vernon, Ind . for Murfreesboro, Tenn ... for Murphysboro, Ill....
for Muskogee, Okla. for Narragansett Pier, R. I. for Naugatuck, Conn .... for Neenah, Wis..

INDEX .

ccvii

Page. 1374 1374 1375 705, 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 705, 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 705 1375 1375 1375 1375 705 1375 1375 1375 1375 1375 705 1375 1375 705 705 1375 1375 705 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 1376 705, 1376 1376 1376 1376 705, 1377 705 1377 1377 . 1377 1377 705, 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377 1377

Public Buildings-Continued. appropriation for New Albany, Ind ....... for Newark, N. Y. for Newark, Ohio .

Page. 1377 1377 705

for Newberry; S. C ..

1377

for Newburyport, Mass..

1377

for New Castle, Ind .

1377

for New Haven, Conn ......

1377

for Newnan, Ga...

1377

for New Orleans, La., post - office and

courthouse..

706, 1377

for Newport, Ark..

1377

for New Rochelle, N. Y.

1377

for New York, N. Y., assay office .... 706, 1377

barge office, annex, and pier.. rent..

706, 1378 1378

marine hospital :.

1378

post-office.. limit of cost increased..

706, 1378 706

for Niles, Ohio.... for North Adams, Mass.. for North Attleboro, Mass.. for North Platte, Nebr . for North Yakima, Wash. for Nyack, N. Y...
for Oil City, Pa.... for Oklahoma City, Okla. for Olympia, Wash. for Orangeburg, S. C .. for Orlando, Fla... for Osage City, Kans... for Ottumwa, Iowa.. for Owatonna, Minn....

1378 1378 1378 1378 706, 1378 1378 1378 706, 1378 1378 1378 1378 1378 706, 1379 1379

for Owensboro, Ky...

706

for Palatka, Fla..

1379

for Paragould, Ark .

1379

for Paris, Tex...

1379

for Park City, Utah..

1379

for Parkersburg, W. Va.

1379

for Passaic, N.J.

1379

for Pendleton, Oreg. for Penn Yan, N. Y. for Pensacola, Fla.............
for Perry, Iowa..... for Perth Amboy, N. J.. for Peru, Ind..

1379 1379 1379 1379 1379 709, 1379

for Philadelphia, Pa., post-office, repairs..
for Philippi, W. Va..... for Phoenix, Ariz..... for Piqua, Ohio ..... for Pittsfield, Mass.. for Point Pleasant, W. Va..... for Pontiac, Ill... for Pontiac, Mich..
for Port Arthur, Tex.. for Port Jervis, N. Y. for Portland, Ind .................. for Portland, Me..... for Portland, Oreg.. for Portsmouth, Ohio.. for Pottstown, Pa... for Princeton, Ill.. for Princeton, Ind.. for Pulaski, Va.. for Putnam, Conn.. for Quincy, Ill..
rent.. for Quitman, Ga...
for Raleigh, N. C.. for Reading, Mass... for Reading, Pa.....
for Red Bank, N. J... for Redfield, S. Dak..
for Reidsville, N. C ..

etc. , 706 1379 1379 1379 706 1379
1379 1379 706, 1379 1379 1379 706 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 706, 1380 706, 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380 1380

ccviii

INDEX .

Public Buildings- Continued. appropriation for Richfield, Utah.. for Richmond, Va....... rent..
for Roanoke, Va.. rent .
for Robinson, Ill.. for Rochester, Pa. for Rock Island , Ill..
rent.
for Rockville, Conn.. for Rocky Mount, N. C... for Rome, Ga.... for Roseburg, Oreg.. for Roswell, N. Mex. for Rumford Falls, Me.. for Sacramento, Cal.. for Saint Louis , Mo., customhouse.
post office... Bubtreasury. for Salem, Ohio .. for Salina, Kans..
for Salisbury, N. C.. for Salt Lake City, Utah.. for San Angelo, Tex.. for San Antonio, Tex.. for San Bernardino, Cal.. for San Diego, Cal... for San Francisco, Cal., subtreasury.
for San Juan, P. R.. for Santa Barbara, Cal... for Santa Cruz, Cal... for Saratoga Springs, N. Y.. for Sault Sainte Marie, Mich .. for Savanna, Ill...
for Schenectady, N. Y.. for Seattle, Wash. , post-office.. for Seymour, Conn... for Seymour, Ind.. for Shamokin, Pa.... for Shelby, N. C.. for Shelbyville, Ky. for Sheridan, Wyo.. for Shreveport, La.
rent. for Sidney, Ohio.. for Sioux Falls, S. Dak..
rent....
for Skowhegan, Me.. for Smyrna, Del.. for Somerset, Ky. for South Bethlehem, Pa. for South Boston, Va.. for Sparta, Wis.... for Springfield, Mo.. for Stamford, Conn.. for Stamford, Tex... for Statesboro, Ga.. for Steelton, Pa..
for Steubenville, Ohio .. for Suffolk, Va... for Sycamore, Ill.. for Syracuse, N. Y.. for Talladega, Ala.. for Tarboro, N. C.... for Tarentum, Pa.... for Taylorsville, Ill . for Texarkana, Tex.. for Thomasville, Ga. for Three Rivers, Mich. for Tiffin, Ohio ... for Titusville, Pa... for Toledo, Ohio... for Topeka, Kans .. for Traverse City, Mich. for Tucson, Ariz..

Page. 1380 706, 1380 706, 1380 706 706 1380 1380 1380 706, 1380 1380 1380 1381 1381 706, 1381 1381 706, 1381 1381 706, 1381 1381 1381 707 1381
707, 1381 707, 1381
707 1381 707, 1381 1381 1381 1381 707, 1381 707 707 1381 1381 1381 1381 1381 1381 1381 1382 707, 1382 707, 1382 707 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382
1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 1382 707 1382 1382 1382 1383 707 1383 1383 1383

Public Buildings-Continued. appropriation for Tupelo, Miss.. for Twin Falls, Idaho.... for Union, S. C.. for Union City, Tenn.. for Urbana, Ill... for Urbana, Ohio.. for Utica, N. Y.. for Uvalde, Tex.. for Valley City, N. Dak. for Vancouver, Wash.. for Vicksburg, Miss.. for Victoria, Tex... for Wabash, Ind..

Page.
1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383 1383

for Wahoo, Nebr.... for Wahpeton, N. Dak.

1383 1383

for Walla Walla, Wash..

1383

for Wallingford, Conn... for Waltham, Mass.

1383 1383

for Warrenton, Va..

1383

forWashington, D. C., Bureau of Engraving and Printing; vaults....
Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce and Labor...
post office...
for Washington, Ind . for Washington, Iowa..

1383
1384 1384 1384 1384

for Washington, N. C..

1384

for Waterloo, N. Y., use of balance from

Hornell..

707

for Waterville, Me.. for Waukegan, Ill....

1384 1384

for Waupun, Wis.. for Waxahachie, Tex.... for Waycross, Ga.....

1384 707, 1384
1384

for Waynesboro, Va..... for Waynesville, N. C...

1384 1384

for Webb City, Mo... for Wellsburg, W. Va....

1384 1384

for Wenatchee, Wash. for Westerly, R. I.. for Westfield, Mass.
for West Point, Miss.. for Wichita Falls, Tex.... for Wilkesboro, N. C..... for Williamson, W. Va... for Williston, N. Dak.

1384 1384 1384 1384 1384 1384 1384 1384

for Wilmington, Del .. for Wilson, N. C. for Winchester, Ky......
for Winchester, Tenn .. for Winfield, Kans..

707 1384 1384 13841385

for Winston Salem, N. C.

1385

for Woodbury, N. J.

1385

for Woonsocket, R. I ... for Yoakum, Tex..

707, 1385 1385

for Yonkers, N. Y..

1385

for York, Pa..

1385

for Ypsilanti, Mich.

1385

for repairs and preservation.

708, 1385

forspecial repairs Treasury building, Dis-

trict of Columbia, and subtreasury,

New York City....

708

for mechanical equipment for heating,

hoisting, etc..

708, 1385

for vaults, safes, and locks..

708, 1385

for electrical protection of vaults . 708, 1385 for electrical burglar-alarm, Treasury

building...

1386

for additional pay to Supervising Archi-

tect..

708, 1386

for general expenses, skilled employees,

etc., office of Supervising Archi-

tect ....

708, 1386

for superintendents, inspectors, etc., on

buildings....

709, 1386

1

INDEX .

ccix

Public Buildings-Continued.

Fage.

appropriation for mechanical labor

force......

... 709, 1386

for contingent expenses, materials, com-

missions, etc.

709, 1386

construction disbursements to be made

from Washington; no allowance to collectors of customs, etc., for...... 1387
payment of expenses of details to assist inspection offurniture, etc., to cease 710

for general inspector of supplies ..... 714, 1391

for assistant custodians and janitors.. 714, 1391

for furniture and repairs.......

714, 1391

for fuel, lights, and water.

715, 1391

operating pneumatic tubes for postal

service....

715, 1392

deficiency appropriation for Pittsburg, Pa.,

repairs

121

for Treasury building, repairs ... 121, 206, 1293

for Washington, D. C. post-office.

780

for Departments of State, Justice, and

Commerce and Labor....

780

for Alexandria, La....

889

for Beverly, Mass., lánd..

207

for Braddock, Pa., site..

207

Ufor Bristol, Conn....

779-

for Charleston, W. Va., rent, etc..

207

for Columbus, Ohio, rent....

889

for Danbury, Conn., site.

207

for Danville, Va., rent, etc...

207

for Dayton, Ohio...

1293

for Fort Worth, Tex...

1293

for Fremont, Nebr., rent, etc..

207

for Grand Rapids, Mich., rent . for Indianapolis, Ind . for Jackson, Tenn., rent, etc .. for Kansas City, Kans., rent, etc.. for Lima, Ohio, rent, etc..

207, 889 207 207 207 207

for Los Angeles, Cal..

207

for Lynchburg, Va., rent, etc..

207

for Mason City, Iowa.

780

for Maysville, Ky..

1294

for Morgantown, W. Va., site.

207

for New London, Conn....

1294

for North Adams, Mass., water.

208

for Paris, Ill..

1293

for Pittsburg, Pa., custodian.

208

repairs..

780

forPlainfield, N. J., site..

207

forPortland, Me., additional land, etc. 207, 1294

for Reno, Nev...

207

for Santa Rosa, Cal..

207

for Tacoma, Wash...

207

for Trenton, N. J...

1293

for Waterville, Me., kite.

207

for Webster, Mass...

1294

for Westfield, Mass., site.

207

for Youngstown, Ohio..

779

for furniture, etc .. 205, 780, 808, 1294, 1320

for general expenses..

208, 1294

for vaults, safes, and locks.

208, 1293

for assistant custodians and janitors.

219,

808, 1320, 1325

for fuel, lights, and water.. 219, 808, 1294, 1320

for heating apparatus..... for repairs and preservation.

219,808, 1320 219, 1320

for inspector of furniture..

779

for Frank E. Gore.....

780

for mechanical equipment...

813, 1293

Ansonia, Conn., open space reduced ..

207

Atlanta, Ga., sale of old post-office to city,

authorized..

703

Biloxi, Miss., strip of land deeded to City

for street...

186

Burlington, N. J., open space reduced ..

704

Public Buildings-Continued.

Page.

Minneapolis, Minn., strip of land relin-

quished to city for widening street.. 1376

Owensboro, Ky., sale of old public building

and site authorized...

1379

Santa Cruz, Cal., part of site to City for

street....

448

West Point, Miss., limit of cost increased.. 121

acquirement of additional land authorized

for, Quincy, Ill ....

121

allowance ofaccounts of Henry D. Dillon.. 208

pneumatic service New York customhouse

to appraisers' stores, acceptance au-

thorized ....

120

receipts from steam furnished to pneumatic

postal service to be credited to appro- .

priation for fuel, etc ...

121

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act,

limit of cost increased and construction

authorized at Albuquerque, N. Mex. 678

Alpena, Mich...

678

Asbury Park, N. J...

678

Barre, Vt..

679

Bath, Me...

678

Bellingham, Wash.

679

Bloomington, Ind..

677

Bowling Green, Ky..

678

Brazil, Ind..

677

Burlington, N. J...

678

Charleston, W. Va.....

679

Colorado Springs, Colo..

677

Columbus, Ind..

677

Columbus, Ohio..

678

Connellsville, Pa...

678

Cordele, Ga...

677

Denison, Tex..

679

Dublin, Ga..

677

Eagle Pass, Tex..

679

Elwood, Ind..

677

Faribault, Minn..

678

Florence, Ala.....

677

Fort Collins, Colo..

677

Fort Dodge, Iowa..

677

Gadsden, Ala..

677

Gaffney, S. C....

678

Granite City, Ill..

677

Great Falls, Mont..

678

Griffin, Ga....

677

Hillsdale, Mich.

678

Huron, S. Dak.

679

Jersey City, N. J..

678

Kansas City, Kans..

677

Keene, N.H..

678

Lagrange, Ga....

677

Laurens, S. C..

678

Lead, S. Dak..

679 .

Maryville, Mo..

678

Mattoon, Ill...

677

Milledgeville, Ga......

677

Missoula, Mont....

678

Morgantown, W. Va.

679

Murfreesboro, Tenn..

679

Murphysboro, Ill...

677

New Orleans, La., post-office, etc...

678

Newark, Ohio...

678

Newberry, S. C........

678

Newnan, Ga.

677

North Yakima, Wash..

679

Oklahoma City, Okla.

678

Orangeburg, S. C.....

679

Park City, Utah..

679

Perth Amboy, N. J...

.678

Phoenix, Ariz..

677

Plymouth, Mass...

678

Pontiac, Ill .

677

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-107

CCX

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued. limit of cost increased and construction
authorized at Rock Island, Ill......... Rock Springs, Wyo... Rome, Ga..
Salt Lake City, Utah . San Diego, Cal.. San Juan, P. R... Sheridan, Wyo... Sioux Falls, S. Dak. Suffolk, Va....
Talladega, Ala. Union, S. C.. Wabash, Ind .. Wallingford, Conn.. Washington, N. C .. Wichita Falls, Tex. Winchester, Ky . Woonsocket, R. I ... Yonkers, N. Y.. enlargement of public building authorized
at Anniston, Ala........ Auburn, N. Y.... Beaver Falls, Pa. Bristol, R. I. Dayton, Ohio.. Evanston, Ill..
Galveston, Tex. , appraisers' stores.. Guthrie, Okla.. Harrisburg, Pa .. Lansing, Mich.. Lincoln, Nebr.. New Albany, Ind. Oil City, Pa... Paris, Tex.. Pensacola, Fla. Portsmouth, Ohio. Reidsville, N. C.. Saint Louis, Mo., customhouse . Springfield, Mo.. Traverse City, Mich..
Vicksburg, Miss... specific authority required to enlarge sites. limits of cost to include changes, etc....
regular repairs, etc. , from annual appropriations for general maintenance..
construction authorized at Abilene, Kans.
Bainbridge, Ga....
Bardstown, Ky... Bedford City, Va. Bellefontaine, Ohio.. Beloit, Kans. Bennington, Vt. Biddeford, Me.... Boonville, Mo... Bowling Green, Ohio.. Brookfield, Mo .. Brookings, S. Dak....
Brownwood, Tex.. Butler, Pa. Camden, Me... Carrollton, Ga.... Cartersville, Ga...
Casper, Wyo..... Cedartown, Ga.. Chickasha, Okla.. Chillicothe, Mo.
Clarksville, Tex .. Concordia, Kans . Corry, Pa.... Cortland, N. Y. Covington, Va. Cuero, Tex .. Cullman, Ala Cynthiana, Ky.. Defiance, Ohio.

Page.
677 679 677 679 677 678 679 679 679 677 679 677 677 678 679 677 678 678
679 680 680 680 680 679 680 680 680 679 679 679 680 680 679 680 680 679 679 679 679 680 680
680 681 681 681 683 682 681 683 681 682 682 682 683 683 683 682 681 681 684 681 683 682 683 681 683 682 683 683 680 681 682

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued. construction authorized at Denison, Iowa. Douglas, Wyo.. Duquoin, Ill.. Elberton, Ga.. Elkins, W. Va.
Fort Madison, Iowa.. Frankfort, Ind.. · Fulton, N. Y. Gettysburg, Pa.. Grafton, W. Va.. Grand Junction, Colo..
Grass Valley, Cal.. Greeley, Colo.
Greenville, N. C..
Harrisburg, Ill.. Hickory, N. C.. Hopkinsville, Ky. Iowa Falls, Iowa.. Johnstown, N. Y.. Kingfisher, Okla.. Laurel, Miss..
Lawrenceburg, Ky. Le Mars, Iowa. Lebanon, Tenn . Lewes, Del.. Live Oak, Fla.. Livingston, Mont.. McAlester, Okla..
McCook, Nebr. Marlin, Tex... Marshall, Mo... Marshall, Tex.... Menomonie, Wis. Milwaukee, Wis., appraisers' stores.. Monroe, N. C..
Moorhead, Minn.. Morristown, N. J. Morristown, Tenn. Mount Vernon, N. Y..... North Tonawanda, N. Y. Oldtown, Me. Olympia, Wash.. Oneonta, N. Y. Opelika, Ala. Orange, N. J.. Ottawa, Kans..
Oxford, N. C... Petoskey, Mich Pocatello, Idaho ..
Poplar Bluff, Mo..... Pulaski, Tenn...
Punxsutawney, Pa.. Rapid City, S. Dak. Red Oak, Iowa.. Rochelle, Ill.. Rochester, N. H.. Rolla, Mo..
Saint Petersburg, Fla. Searcy, Ark.. Shelbyville, Tenn. Sistersville, W. Va..
South Chicago, Ill .. Springfield, Tenn.. Sunbury, Pa... Tifton, Ga... Tulsa, Okla.
Waukesha, Wis...
Weatherford, Tex... Wooster, Ohio.. Wytheville, Va..... ..... Xenia, Ohio ...
acquiring site and erection of public building authorized at Albion, Mich..
Amarillo, Tex.... Ardmore, Okla......

Page. 681 684 681 681 683 681* 681 682 683 683 681 691 681 682 681 682 681 681 682 683 682 681 681 683 681 681 682 . 683 682 683 682 683 684 684 682 682 682 683 682 682 682 683 682 680 682 681 682 682
681 682683 683 683 681 681 692 6S2 681 680 693 683 681 683 683 681 693 684 683 682 683 682
686 688 687

INDEX.

ccxi

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued . Page.

acquiringsite and erection of publicbuilding authorized at Arkansas City, Kans..
Baltimore, Md., immigrant station. Beardstown, III. Bedford, Pa..... Bellaire, Ohio...... Bennettsville, S. C .. Berkeley, Cal.. Big Rapids, Mich. Blackwell, Okla.
Blue Island, I .. Bozeman, Mont..
Brigham City, Utah.. Bryan, Tex. Cadillac, Mich. Cambridge, Ohio... Camden, S. C..... Canton, Ill... Canton, Miss...
Carnegie, Pa.. Chanute, Kans.. Chico, Cal..
Clarksdale, Miss.. ·· Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.
Collinsville, Ill... Cookeville, Tenn. Covington, Tenn... De Soto, Mo... Delavan, Wis... East Pittsburg, Pa.. Edwardsville, Ill.. El Reno, Okla. Ennis, Tex.. Eureka Springs, Ark. Excelsior Springs, Mo. Fayetteville, Tenn Fort Atkinson, Wis..
Fulton, Ky.. Fulton, Mo....
Garden City, Kans. Gardiner, Me... Gary, Ind.
Georgetown, Ky. Glens Falls, N. Y:.
Gouverneur, N. Y. Greenfield, Mass. Grenada, Miss .... Hampton, Va.... Hanford, Cal.. Hanover, Pa... Hendersonville, N. C. Holland, Mich.
Huntingdon, Pa. Idaho Falls, Idaho. Ishpeming, Mich.. Jackson, Ky.. Jennings, La... Juneau, Alaska . LaJunta, Colo. Lafayette, La... Lake City, Minn . Lawton, Okla... Long Branch, N. J. Longview, Tex.. Lorain, Ohio.. McPherson, Kans. Macomb, Ill. Mandan, N. Dak. Medford, Oreg. Middlesboro, Ky.. Miles City, Mont.. Millville, N. J... Mishawaka, Ind.. Monongahela, Pa. Moundsville, W. Va..

685 .685 684 687 687 688 -684 686 -687 684 686 688 688 686 687 688 684 686 687 -685 684 686 684 .685 688. 688 686 688 687 " 685 687 688 684.686 688 688 685 686 685 685 685 685 686 686 685 686 688 684 687 686 486 687 684 686 685 685 684 684 685 686 687 686 688. 687 685 *685 687 687 685 686 686 685 687

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued. Page.

acquiring site and erection of public build-

ing authorized at Mount Vernon,

n ...

685

Narragansett Pier, R. I..

688

New Rochelle, N. Y.

686

Newcastle, Ind .

685

Newport, Ark.

684

North Attleboro, Mass ,

686

Osage City, Kans..

685

Owatonna, Minn .

686

Palatka, Fla.

684

Perry, Iowa..

685

Piqua, Ohio .

687

Port Jervis, N. Y.

686

Portland, Ind.

685

Princeton, Ill..

685

Putnam, Conn. ...

684

· Quitman, Ga.

684

Robinson, Ill.

685

Rocky Mount, N. C.

687

Salem, Ohio.

687

Seymour, Ind.

*685

Smyrna, Del..

684

Sparta, Wis..

688

Stamford, Conn.

684

Steubenville, Ohio....

687

Sycamore, III.

685

Tarboro, N. C...

687

Tiffin, Ohio..

687

The Dalles, Oreg.

687

Thomasville, Ga...

684

Three Rivers, Mich.

686

Tupelo, Miss.

686

Urbana, Ill..

685

Uvalde, Tex...

688

Wahpeton, N. Dak.

687

Waltham, Mass.

686

Webb City, Mo.

686

Wellsburg, W. Va..

Wilkesboro, N. C..

687

Williston, N. Dak.

687

Winchester, Tenn.

688

Winfield, Kans....

685

Ypsilanti, Mich..

686

acquiring site for public building author-

ized at Aberdeen, Wash.

692

Alliance; Nebr....

690

Ann Arbor, Mich..

690 .

Anoki, Minn....

690

Antigo, Wis..

692

Argenta, Ark..

688

Arkadelphia, Ark.

688

Ashland, Ky.

689

Ashland, Ohio.

691

Atlanta, Tex...........

692

Aurora, Nebr.

690

Bakersfield, Cal.

688

Barnesville, Ga.

689

Bartow, Fla..

689

Basin, Wyo..

693

Bay City, Tex.

692

Bayonne, N. J.

690

Beatrice, Nebr.

690

Beeville, Tex ..

692

Belton, Tex.

692

Berlin, N. H....

690

Bethlehem, Pa....

691

Birmingham, Ala.

688

Boyne City, Mich.

690

Bronx, N. Y.

691

Buckhannon, W. Va.

692

Buffalo, Wyo.

693

Burlington, N. C..

691

Caribou, Me.

689

Chadron, Nebr....

690

ccxii

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued . acquiring site for public building authorized at Charles City, Iowa.. Charlotte, Mich.
Chicago, Ill., post-office . Cicero, Ill.. Cody, Wyo.. Columbia, S. C.. Conneaut, Ohio .
De Land, Fla. Dickinson, N. Dak. Douglas, Ariz.. Dowagiac, Mich . Dubois, Pa.. Duluth, Minn.. Dunkirk, N. Y. Durango, Colo.
East Orange, N. J. El Paso, Tex . Ellensburg, Wash . Elyria, Ohio .
Falls City, Nebr. Fordyce, Ark.
Fort Morgan, Colo. Franklin, Va.. Frederick, Md . Fremont, Ohio .. Globe, Ariz... Green River, Wyo . Grinnell, Iowa. Hackensack, N. J.
Hallowell, Me .. Hammond, La.. Hiawatha, Kans . Holly Springs, Miss. Holton, Kans . Humboldt, Tenn . Huntington, Ind .. Huntington, W. Va. Huntsville, Tex... Jackson, Ohio.. Jamestown, N. Dak. Jasper, Ala..
Jellico, Tenn... Kalispell, Mont.. Laconia, N. H.. Lancaster, Ky . .... Lancaster, Pa.. Las Cruces, N. Mex .
Las Vegas, N. Mex . Little Falls, Minn.. Logan, Ohio.... Long Beach, Cal.. Lumberton, N. C. McComb, Miss... Madison, S. Dak.. Manchester, Conn.. Maquoketa, Iowa. Marion, S. C.... Martin, Tenn... Maryville, Tenn... Media, Pa..... Mena, Ark .
Middletown, Conn.. Monroe, Wis.. Montevideo, Minn . Mount Vernon, Ind... Naugatuck, Conn... Neenah, Wis.
Newburyport, Mass. Niles, Ohio. Nyack, N. Y. Orlando, Fla. Parkersburg, W. Va.. Passaic, N. J.. Philippi, W. Va..

Page.
689 690 689 689 693 692 691 689 691 688 690 691 690 691 689 690 692 692 691 690 688 689 692 690 691 688 693 689 690 689 689 689 690 689 692 689 692 692 691 691 688 692 690 690 689 691 691 691 690 691 688 691 690 692 689 689 692 692 692 691 688 689 693 690 689 689 693 690 691 691 689 692 690 692

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued. acquiring site for public building authorized at Portland, Oreg... Pottstown, Pa. Pulaski, Va.. Reading, Mass.. Red Bank, N. J. Redfield, S. Dak..
Richfield, Utah... Rochester, Pa..... Rockville, Conn...
Roseburg, Oreg. Rumford Falls, Me.. Saint Louis, Mo., subtreasury. San Bernardino, Cal .. Savanna, Ill.
Seattle, Wash., post office.. Seymour, Conn .. Shelby, N. C....
Shelbyville, Ky. Sidney, Ohio.. Skowhegan, Me. South Bethlehem, Pa. South Boston, Va.. Stamford, Tex... Statesboro, Ga .... Syracuse, N. Y.. Tarentum, Pa.. Taylorville, Ill.. Tucson, Ariz.. Twin Falls, Idaho. Urbana, Ohio.. Utica, N. Y. Valley City, N. Dak.. Vancouver, Wash. Wahoo, Nebr... Warrenton, Va... Washington, Ind ... Washington, Iowa. Waterloo, N. Y.. Waupun, Wis............. Waynesboro, Va... Waynesville, N. C. Wenatchee, Wash. Williamson, W. Va.. Woodbury, N. J.. Yoakum, Tex .. Winston-Salem, N. C., additional site for
extending; cost. limit of cost increased..
purchase ofground and contract for addition authorized...
expenditure for fiscal year.... Charlotte, N. C., enlargement authorized..
limit of cost. amount for fiscal year.
Raleigh, N. C., enlargement authorized... limit of cost .. amount for fiscal year.
Austin, Tex., construction authorized;' limit of cost; contracts...
New Haven, Conn ., acquiring new site and construction authorized, of....
limit of cost; amount for fiscal year. sale of old building, etc....
New Orleans, La., acquiring site, etc., for subtreasury; cost...
Point Pleasant, W. Va., limit of cost increased for memorial at.....
Dayton, Ohio, construction authorized .. limit of cost; contracts ...
San Francisco, Cal., construction of subtreasury; limit of cost.
payment for improving alley...... contracts for construction authorized....

Page.
691 691 692 690 690 692 692 691 689 691 690 690 689 689 692 689 691 689 691 690 692 692 692 689 691 692 689 688 689 691 691 691 692 690 692 689 689 691 693 692 691 692 692 690 692
693 693
693 693 693 693 693 693 693 693
693
694 694 694
694
694 694 694
695 695 695

INDEX .

ccxiii

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act--Continued. Augusta, Ga., construction authorized; cost. contracts for construction ....
Pasadena, Cal., construction authorized; cost..
contracts for construction.
New Bedford, Mass., construction authorized; cost.
contracts for construction..
Mobile, Ala., constructionauthorized ; cost. contracts authorized .......
Hilo, Hawaii, division of block for building site....
half reserved for building; remainder restored as public land..
conditions .
Honolulu, Hawaii, enlargement of site authorized..
Minneapolis, Minn.; limit of cost increased. Muskogee, Okla., limit of cost increased.. Jefferson Barracks, Mo. , additional build-
ing authorized.... Minden, La., acceptance of site for.... BonneauTtehrorrei, zMeod..., .a.c.ceptance of site for,
Newburyport, Mass., sale of ' old customhouse authorized ...
Oneida, N. Y., examination for site, etc., to be made ..
Granite City, Ill., monument on post-office
grounds permitted ... Reading, Pa., additional ground author-
ized .. Washington, D. C., city post-office, con-
tracts authorized..
approval of plans by board.. limit of cost; expert service compensa-
tion, etc...
deficiency appropriation for. Washington, D. C. , designs and estimates to
be made for buildings for Depart.ments of State, Justice, and Commerce and Labor; cost.. approval by boards; composition.... expert services; compensation; additional to services in Supervising Architect's office..... deficiency appropriation for. Washington, D. C., designs and estimates to be made for office building for bureaus, etc., on Square No. 143; cost. approval by board; use of unexpended balance, etc.... payment for sites limited to specific appropriations.... no expenditure for construction before plans, estimates, etc., made by Supervising Architect..
approval required of Secretary of the Treasury and head of department interested....
changes; limit of costnot to be exceeded . contracts for full architectural services of
successful competitors, allowed..... plans, etc., for buildings for Government
purposes may be prepared in Archi-
tect's office on request of head of
department, etc. Washington, D. C. , Meridian Hill park,
acquiring land for, authorized .
Washington, D. C., Montrose park; acquiring land for, on Georgetown Heights, authorized ..
offers for sites to be presented in writing... rent of buildings standing; exposure to streets .

Page. | Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Continued. Page.

695 advertisement of proposals; examinations,

695

etc...

702

open space for protection from fire; reduc-

695

tion in exceptional cases .

702

695 Boston, Mass., exchange of site for immi-

gration station authorized .

702

695 Oklahoma, transfer of Federal jails .

702

695 Public Buildings and Grounds, D. C.,

696 appropriation for additional pay, officer in

696

charge....

249, 1043

for superintendent, clerks, etc. ..... 504, 1207

696

for foremen, gardeners, etc...

504, 1207

for watchmen..

504, 1207

696

for watchman, Washington's birthplace . 505,

696

1207

for contingent expenses..

505, 1207

696

for bicycles, arms and ammunition, and

696

uniforms for watchmen

1207

697

amount from District revenues . 505, 1207

for improvement and care of parks,

697

etc...

725, 1402

697

for Monument grounds, etc.

726, 1402

for Potomac Park, etc.

726, 1403

697

for grounds of Executive departments .. 726,

1403

697

for trees, etc., Library grounds...... 726, 1403

Capitol, the Senate and House Office

697

buildings grounds ....

726, 1403

for Executive Mansion grounds.. 726, 1403

697

for employing engineer, etc ..

727, 1403

for removing fence and wall around

697

Botanical Garden, etc ...

1403

for removal of stable, Executive Office,

697

etc.....

1403

698

accommodations to be provided by

Quartermaster General :

1404

698

for repairs, etc. , Executive Mansion . 727, 1404

780

for fuel, Executive Mansion...

727, 1404

for greenhouses, etc....

..... 727, 1404

for lighting; maximum...

727

part from District revenues .

727

698

for electric lights..

727

698

for lighting, Executive Mansion, etc.... 1404

for lighting and heating public grounds;

maximum .

1404

698

no contracts required ..

1404

780

settlement of existing contracts for arc

lighting...

1404

for Grant memorial..

728

699

for unveiling statue of John Paul Jones.. 1404

for telegraph, Capitol, departments, etc. 728,

699

1404

for Washington Monument...

728, 1404

699

for repairs, building where Abraham

Lincoln died...

728, 1405

for improvements, Wakefield, Va.... 728, 1405

699

for unveiling statue of von Steuben.......... 728,

for commission of Fine Arts.......

728, 1405

officer, to be secretary, etc ..

728

699 deficiency appropriation for monument to

699

Count Pulaski..

209

for monument to Gen. Kosciuszko....

209

699 inventory of property in Executive Man-

sion to be kept in office of.......... 774

Public Convenience Stations, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance...

390,981

699 abandonment of, near Dupont Circle, and

on Ninth between F and G Streets

700

NW...

717

Public Documents,

on free list, issued by foreign governments. 74

701 distribution to retiring Members of Six-

701

tieth Congress, repealed...

182

publications of Monetary Commission to be

701

printed as

217

ccxiv

INDEX .

Public Domain (see Public Lands).

Page.

Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service,

appropriation for Surgeon-General, clerks, etc.. 492, 1194

for medical officers and pharmacists.. for other employees......
for freight, transportation, etc.. for fuel, lights, and water, etc .. for supplies, etc.; depot ........
for Hygienic Laboratory . for maintenance of hospitals . for outside treatment, etc.. for books, etc...

716, 1393 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394 716, 1394

for medical inspection of immigrants. 716, 1394

for leprosy hospital, Hawaii.... investigations by officers ... ! .

716, 1394 1394

for grading, etc., Hygienic Laboratory. 717

for quarantine service .

717, 1394

for prevention of epidemics ..

717, 1394

deficiency appropriation for... 219, 225, 808, 1320 for quarantine service . ...... 219, 1320, 1325

for purveying depot..

781

for Pittsburg, Pa., marine hospital..

781

for leprosy hospital, Hawaii..

808

for medical officers and pharmacists... 1295

for other employees....

1295

for maintenance of hospitals.

1295

for outside treatment ...

1295

light-house tender "Wistaria" transferred

to ...

912

Public Health, International Office of,
appropriation for annual quota.... Public Institutions,

344, 1034

on free list, works of art, etc., for presenta-

tion to...

81

Public Lands,

appropriation for surveyors-general and

their clerks ...

517, 1219

for registers and receivers..

739, 1414

for contingent expenses...

739, 1414

for depositing moneys..

739, 1415

for expenses, timber depredations.... 739, 1415

for protecting, from fraudulent entries 739, 1415

for swamp-land claims, etc..

739, 1415

classification of lands in Northern

Pacific grant.

739

for hearings in land entries.

740, 1415

for reproducing plats of surveys... ... 740, 1415

for examinations of desert lands...... 740, 1415

forrestoring lands in national forests. 740, 1415

for salaries, General Land Office..

740

for opening Indian reservations; reim-

bursable...

740, 1415

for survey, Flathead Reservation, Mont. 740

for surveying; compensation ..

740, 1416

resurveys, etc.... counties in Montana..

741, 1417 741

lands in Idaho ....

741

townships in Nevada, Oregon, and

Utah...

741

counties in Utah.

741, 1417

for abandoned military reservations.. 741, 1417 for completing field notes in Minnesota,

North Dakota, South Dakota, and

Louisiana...

742, 1417

for continuing surveys in Idaho..

1417

for surveying, Alaska.. office-work expenses..

741, 1417 1417

for resurveys in Nebraska..

1417

for refunding to registers money earned for issuing cancellation notices.... 1351

deficiency appropriation for surveyor gen- 222 eral, Washington......

for registers and receivers..

222, 226, 810

for contingent expenses 222, 810, 814, 1323, 1326 for hearings in land entries..... 222, 810, 1323

Public Lands- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for protecting,

etc ...

222, 1323

for surveying..... 222, 811, 814, 1307, 1323, 1326

for surveying private land claims..

222

for surveying forest reserves..

222

for surveyor general, Arizona...................... 226, 1323

for reimbursing Idaho for surveys.... 796, 1307

for deputy surveyors...

796

for opening Indian reservations.

797

for Manual of Surveying Instructions... 797

for maps showing enlarged homesteads.. 797

for restoring lands in national forests.... 811

for surveying certain counties in Mon-

tana.

1307

for surveying certain counties in Utah.. for classification of Northern Pacific Rail-
road grant.. for William H. Houston.
for Fidelity and Guaranty Company. for Glen R. Metsker.....
for receivers, reimbursement...

1307
1307 1307 1308 1308 1308

for Title Guaranty and Insurance Com-

pany.

1308

added to Pocatello National Forest, Idaho. 919

agricultural entries, etc., allowed for sur-

face of coal lands.....

583

arid lands, temporary withdrawals pendingapplicationsunder Carey Act.... 237

assignment of homestead entries in reclama-

tion projects....

592

ceded by Indians on Gros Ventre, etc.,

reservations, Mont., open to entry under general laws.. prior entries in good faith validated ........... coal lands, agricultural entries, etc., permitted for surface of..

1080 1081
583

conservation of, temporary withdrawals by the President for water-power sites,

irrigation, etc.....

847 .

credit for full period of residence allowed

homesteaders ejected from Wisconsin

Central Railroad grants.....

885

time for second entries extended .....

885

desert-land entries, etc., in Imperial

County, Cal., confirmed ....

867

time extended for final proofs, Washing-

ton....

960

selections by Oregon exchanged for lands in national forests ..
disposition of Hawaiian..
enlarged homesteads provisions extended to Idaho....

1357 444
531

excha· nge authorized for private lands in Kansas National Forest .. 960

exchange of, selected byWyoming, author-

ized

295

fees for notices of canceled entries to be

reported, etc., as other fees....

1352

for public parksgranted to cities and towns in Colorado .. 459

payment required ..

461

oil and mineral lands excepted .......

461

reversion for nonuser..

461

grant to Anadarko, Okla., for municipal

uses..

836

Arizona on admission as a State..

572

Bozeman, Mont. , to protect watersupply; payment..
for cemetery to Independent Order of Odd Fellows at Central City, Colo..
mineral rights reserved..
Cheyenne, Wyo .; payment.. Colorado for Agricultural College; pay-
ment.... New Mexico on admission as State......

893
892 892 .291
847 561

INDEX .

CCXV

Public Lands Continued.

Page

grant to Omak, Wash., for public park;

payment, etc.

1350

railroads, deposits required for selecting,

etc., unsurveyed lands under; use,

etc....

834

forfeiture on failure to make deposits.. 834

taxation of surveyed lands....

834

Rawlins, Wyo.; payment.....

325

Trinidad, Colo., for water supply; pay-

ment, etc...

1349

Wilson Creek, Wash., for water supply;

payment..

903

Yuma, Ariz...

583

homestead entries allowed on lands relin-

quished under reclamation act.... 918

Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn.,

undisposed of ceded lands ...

913

widow, etc., of aliens becoming insane

before completing naturalization .... .929

David Eddington.....

1349

pending in former Siletz Indian Reserva-

tion, Oreg., may be passed to patent. 1356

conditions .

1356

homestead settlers, allowed additional time

to pay for lands on ceded Kiowa,

Comanche, and Apache Indian Res

ervations, Okla...

266 .

Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn.... 265

Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak... 265

time to establish residence, etc..... 189,903

allowed three months' leave of absence 189, 904

homesteads, second entries allowed, if

former lost, etc.; parties excluded.. 896

settlers on lands excluded from Refugio

Colony grant, N. Mex.....

896

investigation by joint Congressional_com-

Imittee of Forest Service and dis-

posal, etc., of.......

871

jurisdiction of district courts to prevent,

etc., unlawful inclosure of....

1093

land districts created, Fort Sumner, N.

Mex....

585

Havre, Mont........

192

Vale, Oreg..

238

land office abolished, Des Moines, Iowa.... 193

leaves of absence to homesteaders on irri-

gation projects until water available. 864

mineral entries, Alaska, time extended for

filing adverse claims, etc....

459

open to entry, Fort Berthold Indian Reser-

vation, N. Dak., unallotted , etc.,

lands...

455

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

unallotted, etc., lands....

440

Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

unallotted, etc., lands..

448

patents to mineral lands not to be denied

solely because transferred before

discovery of oil, etc...

1015

punishment for unlawfully cutting timber

on....

857

not extinguishing fires on..

857

receipts from sales, not to be used for

reclamation projects.....

836

reinstatement of homestead entries can-

celed, etc., solely because of errone-

ous allowance after withdrawals for

national forests...

1084

rights of contestants .

1084

restored to entry, Millard County, Utah, not

needed for reservoir, etc.

932

resurveys authorized; expendituresfor, in-

creased..

884

right of way through, in Arkansas for pipe

lines...

296

Public Lands -Continued.
right of way may be granted for electric lines through; period, etc.....
sale of lands, etc., no longer needed for reclamation act uses..
to Anadarko, Okla.; payments.. -option to Anadarko Commercial Club..
to Johnson County, Wyo........ to Lawton, Okla to Masonic order in Oklahoma to Seattle, Wash., to protect water sup-
ply.... school sections Pine Ridge Reservation,

Page.
1253
895 836 837 237 355 923
959 .

S. Dak., lieu selections by South

Dakota extended

1072

Rosebud Reservation, S. Dak., lieu

selections by South Dakota extend-

ed..

1073

setting apart of Glacier National Park,

Mont..

354

surveying, additional per diem to survey-

ors for....

890

swamp lands granted to Wisconsin..

822

time extended for installments on opened

lands of Cheyenne River and Stand-

ing Rock Indian Reservations, S.

Dak. and N. Dak ...

266

town sites on reclamation projects, reap-

praisal and sale of unsold lots; pay-

ments..

465

Public Libraries,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit..

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for .

78

Public Library, D. C., Free, appropriation for salaries..

380, 972

for assistant in charge of work for the

blind....

972

for substitutes...

380, 972

for Sunday and holiday opening.. for books, fuel, etc..

380, 973 380, 973

Public Printer (see also Public Printing and

Binding), appropriation for, Deputy, etc...

766, 1444

to certify to disbursing officers amount of

unpaid bills of Senators, Members,

and Delegates, for speeches, etc..... 1446 to be deducted from salaries of delin-

quents.....

1446

Public Printing and Binding (seealso Govern-

ment Printing Office),

appropriation for salaries and expenses,

Government Printing Office..... 766, 1444

holidays and leaves of absence..... 767; 1445

for expenses...

767, 1445

for Congress..

768, 1446

recommendations, etc., by Printing

Committee...

768, 1446

unpaid bills for speeches, etc., to be deducted from salaries of Senators

or Members...

1446

for executive departments, etc ....... 768, 1446

division of allotments....

769, 1446

apportionment of expenditures to

work executed........

770

transfer of allotments for 1911.

1448

for salaries and expenses, superintendent

of documents..

770, 1448

deficiency appropriation for Congress... 806, 1324

for Supreme Court....

807

forDepartment of Justice..

807

for Court of Customs Appeals ....

807

for Interstate Commerce Commission... 807

for Bureau of American Republics..

807

for leaves of absence

807

for printing and binding..

814

for Treasury Department....

879

ccxvi

INDEX .

Public Printing and Binding- Continued . Page.

allotment for Bureau of American Repub-

lics, 1910, increased .....

878

increase of allotment for printing and bind-

ing for Congress .

217

for machinery..

217

ordered, Bureau of Mines Reports, etc..

742

limit ..

833

Daily Consular Reports, edition in-

creased ...

821

Diseases of Cattle, Special Report on.. 1459

Diseases ofthe Horse, Special Report on. 1459

Farmers' Bulletin No. 391, on Economi-

cal Use of Meats in the Home .

880

Immigration Commission publications.. 768

International Commercial Directory .. 769

Manual of Surveying Instructions....

797

National Monetary Commission publica-

tions.....

217

Navy Yearbook, annually..

768

North Atlantic Fisheries Arbitration

document...

1456

Opinions of the Attorney General

749

Opinions and briefs of Solicitor of the

Treasury...

749

Police Regulations, D. C..

783

preliminary examinations, etc., river

and harbor works...

669,956

preliminary reports and surveys of rivers

and harbors as documents...

184

records, etc., of Senate private claims... 803

Senate Document No. 357, Treaties, etc.,

for Department of State..

1454

tariff matters for House of Representa-

tives on requisition of Representa-

tive Oscar W. Underwood ..

1317

printing, etc., for Thirteenth Census authorized on requisition of director .. 10

reserved sets of documents and reports dis-

continued..

868

transfer of part of appropriation for Weather

Bureau, to Government Printing

Office...

891

Public Property, Old, elc.,

statements of proceeds of sales of, to be

separately communicated to Con-

gress, and not in Book of Estimates.. 773

Public Monuments,

on free list, works of art, etc. , for....

81

Public Roads Office, Department culture,
appropriation for salaries....... for expenses of inquiries, etc.. for field experiments in road tion, etc..
Public Schools, D. C., appropriation for officers... for attendance officers.. for teachers................ for librarians and clerks for longevity pay...... for allowance to principals

of Agri-
439, 1263 439, 1263 construc-
1264
392, 983 392, 983 392, 983 393, 984 394, 984 394, 984

for night schools and kindergartens... 394, 985

for kindergarten supplies...

394, 985

for janitors and care of buildings.

394, 985

for medical inspectors......

395, 986

for rent, etc., temporary rooms, etc.... 395, 986

forrepairsand improvements..

395, 987

for plumbing repairs..

396, 987

for manual training expenses...

396, 987

for fuel, light, and power..

396, 987

for furniture, new buildings, etc.

396, 987

for contingent expenses..

396, 987

for pianos..

396, 987

for text-books, etc.; flags, playgrounds,

Ischool gardens, etc..

396, 987

forapparatus, etc..

397,988

Public Schools, D. C.-Continued.

Pago.

appropriation for portable schoolhouses .. 397, 988

for buildings and sites, etc...

397, 988

additions to Business High School ..

397

additions to Western High School ... 397, 988

additions to McKinley Manual Train-

ing School.....

397, 988

normal-school ..

397, 988

addition to ArmstrongManual Training

School.....

..... 397, 988

site for new Central High School.

988

normal school for colored pupils..

988

manual training school, twelfth divi-

sion....

989

M Street High School..

989

for fireproof stairways, etc..

398, 989

sites and buildings not to exceed limit

of cost...

398, 989

municipal architect to prepare plans,

etc., of buildings...

398, 989

exit doors to open outward..

398, 989

amount for sites and buildings imme-

`diately available.....

398, 989

deficiency appropriation for portable

schoolhouses, temporary..

122

for janitors Western High School..

1297

for compulsory education expenses..

1297

payment for typewriting pay rolls, ap-

proved .....

208

substitute teachers may be employed ;

salary...

1395

leave of absence for 30 days; payment dur-

ing absence.

1395

other employees allowed leave with pay;

provision for substitutes..

1395

Public Works,

appropriation for medical examination of

employees injured on.

526

Publications,

on free list, issued by individuals for gra-

tuitous circulation.....

73

by scientific associations, etc..

73

Publications Division, Department of Agri-

ture,

appropriation for salaries..

435, 1259

for general expenses..

435, 1259

Publications ofthe Sixtieth Congress,

distribution of, to retiring Members, re-

pealed....

182

Publicity to Contributionsfor Election ofRep-

resentatives,

political committees defined; officers re-

quired .....

822

treasurers' duties..

823

receipts for disbursements; preserva-

tion...

823

treasurer to be given detailed statements of

all contributions.....

823

to file statement of all receipts and dis-

bursements, with Clerk of the House. 823

details required .....

823

statements required of expenditures made by others than political committee.. 824

personal traveling expenses, etc., ex-

cepted...

824

legal expenses in contested elections al-

lowed...

824

punishment for violating provisions..... Pueblo, Colo.,
terms of court at.

824 1108

Pueblo Indians, N. Mex.,

appropriation for special attorney....... 278, 1067 Puget Sound-Lake Washington Waterway,

appropriation for improvement of; limita-

tions.....

666

use of water power..

666

for improvement of; lock, etc....

1406

22

INDEX.

ccxvii

Puget Sound Navy- Yard, Wash.,

Page.

appropriation for public works.

616, 1276

for naval magazine ,

617, 1277

Puget Sound, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of Ham-

mersley Inlet ..

665

for improvement of, and tributary wa-

ters.

665, 952

for improvement of waterway connecting

Lakes Union and Washington with.. 666

for lighting.....

754

preliminary examination of ship_canal.

Port Townsend Bay, Oak Harbor,

and, to be made.....

676

Pulaski General Count,

deficiency appropriation for completing

and unveiling statute of...

209

Pulaski, Tenn.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

Pulaski, Va.,

appropriation for public building....

1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

692

Pulp,

duty on, indurated fiber ware.

67

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.......

67

masks..

70

Pulp, Papers, and Books,

Schedule M, Tariff of 1909

60

Pulp, Wood (see also Wood Pulp), on free list, not specially provided for............. 81

Pulsifer, Pitman,

appropriation for compiling Navy Year-

book, etc...

... -766, 1171

deficiency appropriation for preparing

Navy Yearbook...

803

Pulu,

on free list..

78

Pumice Stone,

duty on.

18

manufactures of..

18

Punishments (see Crimes and Misdemeanors).

Punxsutawney, Pa.

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

Purchasing Agent, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for, clerks, etc.

519, 1221

Purchasing Officer, D. C.,

appropriation for; duties, bond ...... ... 966

for clerks, etc., office of..

 967

Pure Food Law,

appropriation for expenses of enforcing. 432, 1255

for enforcing, in District of Columbia ... 993

deficiency appropriation for enforcing.. ... 224

Purses,

duty on metal, silver, etc...

67

Put-in Bay Island, Lake Erie, Ohio, appropriation for memorial and centennial

celebration of Perry's Victory on

Lake Erie.......

1081

Putnam, Conn.,

appropriation for public building..

1380

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

684

Pully,

duty on.

15

Puyallup Agency, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

286, 1074

Puyallup Waterway, Wash.,

contractsfor improving,Tacoma.suspended; diversion ofriver by local interests. 665

Pyramid Canyon, Ariz., dam authorized across Colorado River at

mouth of.........

909

23 5528

Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, Nev. , appropriation for support, etc., of Indians on......
Pyrites, on free list..
Pyrites, Burnt, duty on dross or residium from.....
Pyroligeneous Acid, duty on..
Pyroxylin, Compounds of, duty on..

Page. 278 79· 21 12 13

Q Street NE., D. C.,

grade crossing to be changed..

199

Q Street NW., D. C.,

appropriation for bridge across Rock Creek

at..

979

condemningland to extend and widen...

979

appropriation for expenses, etc....

-979

Quapaw Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 280, 1069 Quarantine Districts for Neat Cattle,

appropriation for establishing, etc ...... 420, 1239 Quarantine Service,

appropriation for maintenance, pay, etc. 717, 1394

deficiency appropriation for. Quarantine Stations, ·..... 219, 1320, 1325

appropriation for repairs, preservation,

etc..

708, 1385

for Brunswick, Ga., new wharf.

710

for Columbia River, hospital.....

710

for San Juan, P. R. , lazaretto, etc., con-

tinued .

710

Quarantine Stations for Neat Cattle, etc.,

appropriation for maintaining."

420, 1239

forbuildings, etc., Baltimore and Boston. 1240

Quarries ofthe United States,

census of, to be taken in 1910, etc ........

schedules of inquiries...

4,227

to relate to year ending December 31

preceding enumeration..

228

limited to active....

4, 228

officials to correctly answer census inquiries....

punishment for failure....

information to be used only for statis-



tics; restriction on publication.....

Quarry Tiles,

duty on.

17

Quartermaster-General's Office, War Depart-

.ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc.............

502, 1204

for architect, engineers, etc..

502, 1204

Quartermaster's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of quartermaster-

sergeants; longevity...

246, 1039

for pay of officers; longevity.

247, 1041

for regular supplies....

252, 1047

fuel and light to quarters, etc..... 252, 1047

post bakeries, ice machines, laundries,

etc..

252, 1047

schools, forage, etc..

252, 1047

stationery, printing; printing con-

tracts .

253, 1047

use of ice machines, etc., for outside

work..

253, 1048

for equipping officers' post schools ... 253, 1048

for incidental expenses..

253, 1048

extra-duty pay, etc.

253, 1048

furniture, etc...

253, 1048

civilian employees, etc..

254, 1048

care of horses.

254, 1048

for purchase ofhorses; limit...

254, 1049

from officers ordered to distant stations. 254

farm for training, etc., horses for

mounted service..

1049

ccxviii

INDEX .

232

889

Quartermaster's Department, Army-Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for purchase of horses; limit;

contracts required ....

254, 1049

use for breeding forbidden..

.254, 1049

standard required ..

254, 1049

enlisted men for remount depots ..

1049

for barracks and quarters...

254, 1049

limit of civilian employees.... 255, 1049

chapels at Fort Yellowstone and Fort

Sam Houston...

1050

for post exchanges....

.... 255, 1050

for transportation; officers' horses.... 255, 1050 due land-grant roads not bond

aided ..

256, 1050

draft animals, wagons, drayage, etc. 256, 1051

vessels, transport service, etc: ..... 256, 1051

officers, etc., Revenue-Cutter Serv-

ice..

256, 1051

secretaries, etc., Young Men's Chris-

tian Association ..

256, 1051

transportation ofmerchandise to Guam

on transports....

256, 1051

transfer of transport " Ingalls".

256

use by officers for military duties.. 1051

suspensions on account of motor vehi-

cles removed .

1051

boats for harbor and seacoast artillery

service......

256, 1051

for roads, walks, wharves, and drainage

at posts....

257, 1051

for water and sewer systems at posts. 257, 1051

land for watersupply, etc., Fort D. A.

Russell and Fort Meade...

1052

for roads, bridges, and trails, Alaska. 257, 1052

retired officers as road commissioners . 1052

for shelter in the Philippines...

257, 1052

limit for officers' quarters..

257, 1052

for clothing, camp and garrison equip-

age....

257, 1052

proceeds from sales ofstores, etc., avail-

able for following year.......

257

for post hospitals, construction, etc.. 258, 1053

for quarters for hospital stewards.... 258, 1053

for shooting galleries and ranges. 258, 1053

for Army War College....

258, 1053

payments for transportation of officers'

horses in 1909 and 1910, authorized .. 1053

for headstones for soldiers ' graves.... 722, 1399

for national cemeteries ..

722, 1399

for bringing home remains of officers and

soldiers dying abroad ........... 723, 1400

forbringinghomeremains of civiliansand soldiers dying on transports..... 723, 1400
for removing remains from abandoned

posts, etc....

723, 1400

reimbursement of burial expenses. 724, 1400

deficiency appropriation for purchase of

wharf, Fort Taylor, Fla...

210

for Shiloh National Cemetery, Tenn.

210

for Shiloh National Military Park, Tenn. 210

for regular supplies...

220, 809, 813, 1321

for incidental expenses...... 220, 225, 809, 1321

for horses....

220

for barracks and quarters... 220, 809, 813, 1321

for transportation ..

220,

225, 789, 809, 813, 1321, 1326

for clothing......

220, 225, 1321

· for camp and garrison equipage.. 220, 225, 1321

for post hospitals................

220, 789, 809

for headstones for soldiers' graves..

220,

225, 809, 1321, 1326

for relief of sufferers in Louisiana..

789

forregular supplies to Military Academy. 790

for forage.....

809

for national cemeteries..

1321

Quartermaster's Department, Army- Cont'd. Page.

deficiency appropriation for bringing home

remains of officers, etc..

1321

additional officers authorized.

1045

promotions and details for....

1045

receipts from sales of serviceable stores available through following year....
to provide accommodations for President's
horses, carriages, etc.....

257 1404

Quarters, Army (see also Barracks and Quar-

ters),

appropriation for hospital stewards..... 258, 1053

Que-til-qua-soon, or Peter, Indian Allottee

sale of portion of allotment to Wapato rri-

gation Company authorized..

1358

Quebracho,

duty on extract of..

13

Queenstown, Md.,

appropriation forimprovement ofharbor. 639, 937

Qui-nai-elt and Quil-leh-ute Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of.. 286, 1074

Quicksilver,

duty on.

31

flasks, etc., containing..

31

Quicksilver Flasks or Bottles,

on free list, returned from abroad..............

72

Quillings,

duty on cotton, flax, etc..

50

Quills,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for....

69

Quilts,

duty on down....

66

Quinaielt Indian Reservation,

allotments allowed on, by Hob, Quileute,

Ozette, etc., Indians...

1345

Quincy, Ill.,

appropriation for public building ... 706, 1380

for rent...

706, 1380

acquirement of additional land authorized

for public building at..

121

terms of court at.

1110

Quince Trees, duty on stocks, etc., of.....

Quinces,

duty on green or ripe.....
Quinia, Sulphate of, on free list...

Quinine, on free list, barks......

Quitman, Ga., appropriation for public building....

1380

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

684

Quito, Ecuador,

· gift to Ecuador of United States building

at exposition at...

203

Quiver River, Miss.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Quoits,

on free list.....

75

R.

R Street SE., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extending. 232

appropriation for expenses..

232

Raccoon Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 636, 936

Racine, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657
Radio Communication,

appropriation for enforcing use on ocean-

going steamers, of means for

1230

ocean-going steamers leaving American

ports to have apparatus for..

629

5522

INDEX .



Radio Communication- Continued.

Page.

ocean-going steamers between ports not 200

miles apart, exempt from..

630

exchange with other systems required .. 630

penalty for leaving without equipment;

regulations .....

630

Radium,

on free list...

78

Ragland Water Power Company,

authorized to complete dam, etc., at Lock

No. 4, Coosa River, Ala...

939

granted water-power franchise for fifty

years, terms, conditions, etc ...... 939

Rags,

duty on woolen....

53

on free list, not specially provided for....

79

"Railroad, "

term to include bridges and ferries used in

connection with...

545

all roads owned or operated under con-

tract, etc....

545

switches, terminals facilities, etc...... 545

freight depots, yards, etc...

545

Railroad Commissions, State, etc.,

complaint against carriers by, to be investi-

gated by Interstate Commerce Com-

mission...

551

Railroad Common Carriers,

jurisdiction of circuit court, etc. , in actions

for injuries to employees of.................... 291 Railroad Corporations,

commission authorized to investigate issue

ofstocks and bonds by............. 556

deficiency appropriation for...

774, 1291

excepted from voluntary bankruptcy..

839

involuntary bankruptcy....

839

Railroad Land Grants,

provisions for requiring deposits for selecting, etc., unsurveyed lands under... 834

Railroad Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by.362, 1334

pay to land-grant roads reduced....

362

expenses of weighing mails..

1334

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by...

224, 812, 1325

Railroad Tics,

duty on..

33

Railroads,

appropriation for tabulating returns of,

carrying mails..........

362, 1335

for establishing, etc., uniform system of

accounts by..

719, 1396

for enforcing use of safety appliances by,

etc ..

719, 1397

for securing, etc. , reports of accidents on: 720

for compelling use of safe locomotive

boilers by....

1397

for investigating use and necessity for

automatic railway train control, etc.,

by..

720, 1397

agent'snameto be posted atfreight stations 548

forbidden to carry products in which inter-

ested ...

547

timber excepted..

547

grants for reservoirs, etc., to, on trust allot-

ments to Indians; payment...

349

safe locomotive boilers required on...

913

inspection, etc...

914

Railroads, Interstate, etc. (see Interstate Com-

merce Regulations). Railroads, Land-Grant,

appropriation for payment of Army trans-

portation on, not bond aided... 256, 1050

Rails, Iron or Steel,

duty on T.....

'23

flat, punched..

23



Railway Accidents,

Paga.

appropriation for securing, etc., reports of. 720

monthly reports required from carriers in

interstate and foreign commerce of

all...

350

omission from annual financial, etc., re-

ports......

351

penalty for failure to report.......

351

investigation by Interstate Commerce Com-

mission; powers...

351

in connection with State commissions... 351

publication of reports....

351

reports not admitted as evidence in dam-

age suits, etc...........

351

forms of reports, etc., to be prescribed ..... 351

former Act repealed..

351

transportation subject to Act..

351

in effect in 60 days...

351

Railway Adjustments Division, Post Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

etc..

520, 1222

Railway Bars,

duty on iron or steel.....

23

Railway Congress, International,

"

appropriation for payment of quota....

343

Railway Discriminations (see also Interstate

Commerce Regulations),

appropriation for expenses, regulating. 719, 1396

Railway Employees, appropriation for arbitrating differences

of.....

719, 1397

deficiency appropriation for arbitrating

differences of..

782

Railway Fishplates, etc.,

duty on iron or steel..

23

Railway Mail Service, Postal Service,

appropriation for General Superintendent,

assistant, clerks, etc...

520, 1222

for division superintendents, assistants,

clerks, etc....

363, 1336

allowance to clerks on duty over ten "

hours...

1336

for travel allowances.

363, 1336

thirty days annual leave to clerks

working six days a week.

1336

for emergency service..

363, 1336

for substitutes for clerks on vacation. 363, 1336

for acting clerks in place of injured;

death allowance....

363, 1336.

for traveling expenses...

363, 1336.

for miscellaneous expenses.....

363, 1336

for per diem, etc., assistant superintend-

ents...

363, 1336

deficiency appropriation for salaries...

225

for expenses...

814

Railway Post-Office Car Service, appropriation for...

363, 1335

sanitary and sound cars required ...... 363, 1335

restriction on wooden cars..

1335

steel construction required after July 1,

1916 ..

1335

Railway Safety Appliances,

appropriation for enforcing use of...... 719, 1397

Railway Wheels and Tires,

duty on iron or steel...

29

Rainier National Forest, Wash. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251

Rainy River Improvement Company, maydamLakeNamakan,KettleFalls,Minn. 931

Rainy River, Minn.,

appropriation for lighting....

754

post lantern lights authorized in..........

534

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Raisins,

duty on.......

38

CCXX

INDEX.

Raleigh, N. C.,

Page.

appropriation for public building.

1380

enlargement, etc. , of public building at,

authorized; cost..

693

amount for fiscal year..

693

terms of court at..

1120

Ramie,

duty on, handkerchiefs......

51

hose, hydraulic or flume.

49

manufactures of, not specially provided

for....

51

roving..

49

shirting cloth..

51

eliver...

49

threads, twines, or cord.

49

woven articles, not specially provided

for...

51

fabrics, not specially provided for..

51

yarns..

49

Range Conditions,

appropriation for experiments in improv-

ing, etc., within national forests.. 430, 1252

Range Finders, Fortifications,

appropriation for purchase, etc..

596, 1341

Rankin and Kellogg,

deficiency appropriation for...........

207

Rapeseed, duty on, oil . 14

on free list...

79

Rapid City, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 283, 1072

deficiency appropriation for Indian school,

water plant...

213

construction of public building, author-

ized at..

683

Rappahannock River, Va., appropriation for improvement of......... 640

Raritan Bay, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of; main-

tenance...

636,936

improvement of waters connecting, with

New York Harbor..

936

Raritan River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 636, 936

for lighting.....

754

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Rasps,

duty on......

27

Ratafia,

duty on..

40

Rates, etc., Interstate Commerce,

just and reasonable, to be determined by

Commission on complaint ....

551

enforcement; continuance..

551

joint, to be apportioned by Commission on

failure of carriers to agree..

551

enforcement .....

551

new, may be examined by Commission. 552

suspension until decision...

552

filed since January 1, 1910, burden of proof on carrier to showif just, etc.. 552

through joint, may be established by Com-

mission on failure of carriers.....

552

Rats, D. C.,

appropriation for destruction of.........................

994

Rattan,

duty on, braids, laces, etc .....

64

chair cane.

hats, bonnets, and hoods.. mats...

matting.. on free list, in the rough, cut for umbrellas,
canes, etc.... Rawlins, Wyo.,

grant of public lands to; payment ........................ 325

Razors, and Razor Blades, duty on..
Read, Charles F., deficiency appropriation for credit in accounts..

Page. 27
1308

Reading, Mass., appropriation for public building..

1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

690

Reading, Pa., appropriation for public building...

1380

additional ground authorized for enlarging

public building at....

697

Ready-Made Clothing,

784 7n

duty on, cotton, not specially provided for. 47

silk, not specially provided for...

60

woolen, not specially provided for....

54

Reapers,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty....

71

Receipt Services,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce ..

545

Receipts, Warehouse,

provisions for making uniform in District

of Columbia the law of................

301

Receivers ofPublic Moneys , Public Lands,

appropriation for salaries and commis-

sions....

739, 1414

deficiency appropriation for salaries and

commissions ...

222, 226, 810

for reimbursing, for moneys erroneously
deposited . Receivers, United States Courts,
to manage property accordingto State laws. punishment for violations....

1308
1104 1104

suits against, subject to equity jurisdiction

of court..

1104

no clerk or deputy to be appointed as; ex-

ception ...

1105

jurisdiction of circuit courts of appeals in proceedings for, in district courts... 1134

Reciprocal Commercial Agreements, under Tariffof1897,

notice of termination of, to be given for-

eign countries ...

83

Reciprocity Treaty with Cuba, Commercial,

not affected by Tariff Act..

83

Reclamation Act,

appropriation for investigating to utilize

lands reclaimed under, etc.... 422, 1243

allotments to Indians in irrigation projects

to be canceled ....

859

reimbursement, etc.....

859

homestead entrymen on lands under, allowed leave of absence until water is

furnished...

864

required residence not lessened ..

864

irrigation systems under Carey Act may

contract for impounding, etc., excess

waters.....

925

distribution to users; restriction, charges,

etc.....

925

cooperation with water users for reser-

voirs, etc., for impounding, deliver-

ing, and carrying waters .

926

title to remain with Government.

926

amount of water limited .

926

moneys received to be covered into

reclamation fund ....

926

lease of power privileges; terms.

930

impairing irrigation projects prohibited .. 931

longer lease on Rio Grande project...

931

power sites within projects in Indian reser-

vations to be reserved.....

858

8888 # ee°g

INDEX .

ccxxi

Reclamation Act-Continued.

Page.

power sites to be reserved pending legislation for projects not authorized ..... 858

public notices of charges, etc., under, may

be withdrawn .......

902

modification of prior applications, etc... 902

abrogation of contracts, etc.

902

sale oflands, etc., no longer needed for pur-

· poses of...

895

appraisal, title, limit.....

895

proceeds to credit of project...

895

trust allotments to Indians in irrigation

projects......

860

withdrawals of coal lands under, subject to

mining rights, permitted ...

583

Reclamation Fund,

transfers from Treasury to, for completion

of projects, etc....

835

approval of President required .

835

appropriations for, as sums are needed ... 835

reimbursement from fund..

835,

examination of projects by board of

engineer officers..

835

approval by President required ... 835

notavailable for new projects...

835

certificates of indebtedness authorized to

provide for advances...

835

period and rate of interest..

835

disposal of; subscriptions....

835

maximum issue; exempt from taxation,

etc ....

835

appropriation for expenses of issue, etc.. 835

payment of advances...

836

use of 50 per cent of reclamation receipts. 836

to commence in five years afterfirstad-

vance..

836

advances available only for present projects 836

new projects to be recommended by Sec-

retary of the Interior.......

836

approval by direct order of the President

required to commence..

836

entries, etc., not allowed before unit of

acreage, and charges established .. 836, 918

disposal of relinquished lands to home-

stead settlement.....

918

use of receipts from sales of public lands

for, repealed......

836

moneys received under contracts for reser-

voirs, etc., to be credited to...... 926

Reclamation Projects,

assignment ofcompleted homestead entries

within, permitted ..

592

lands reserved from grants to Arizona to be

used for..

574

grants to New Mexico, to be used for... 564

reappraisal and sale of unsold lots in town

Bites on...

465

Reclamation Service,

office building authorized for, and other bureaus, etc., in Washington...... 699
Recognizances, etc., Surety,
authority of Secretary of the Treasury re-

specting, of security, etc., compa-

nies..

241

Recoinage ofCoins,
appropriation for gold... for minor..

713, 1390 714, 1390

Recorder ofDeeds, D. C., purchase, etc., book typewriters from sur-

plus fees during fiscal year 1911 2u-

thorized..

974

Records ofthe Rebellion, Naval,

appropriation for continuing publice-

tion .......

506, 1209

Recruiting, Marine Corps, appropriation for..

627, 1286

Recruiting, Navy, appropriation for...
evidence of age required .....

Page. 608, 1268 608, 1268

release on request of parent if minor

has sworn falsely; condition.... 608, 1268

deficiency appropriation for.......

1322

Red Bank, N. J.,

appropriation for public building................ 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

690

"Red Cross,'""

punishment for unauthorized use of..................... 604

Red Cross, American National,

unauthorized use of name, etc., unlawful.. 604

as advertisement, etc., of emblem or

name..

604

punishment for...

604

control of endowment fund .

604

Red Cross Conference, Ninth International,

appropriation for expenses of meeting at

Washington.....

1034

Red Hook Channel, New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of..

728, 1405

Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn.,

additional time for payments by homestead

settlers on ceded part of..

265

forest investigations, etc., on Indian reservations not applicable to...... 271, 1060
grant of lands in, to Minnesota and Mani-

toba Railroad Company...

292

relinquishment of homestead entry by

Hans M. Carlson.......

292

payment of drainage charges.

292

patent to issue for lands selected by Min-

neapolis, Red Lake and Manitoba

Railway Company on......

861

undisposed of ceded lands open to home-

stead entry..

913

preference rights to contestants of can-

celed entries ....

913

subject to drainage charges........

913

Red Lake River,

bridge authorized across, Highlanding,

Minn.....

958

Red Lead,

duty on..

15

Red Oak, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

RedPipestone Quarries, Minn., claim of Yankton Sioux Indians for lands

embracing, referred to Court of

Claims....

284

Red River, La., Ark., Tex., and Okla.,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Fulton, Ark...

648,943

between Fulton, Ark., and Denison,

Tex.......

648, 943

for lighting mouth of....

754

bridge authorized across, Bryan County,

Okla..

189

Shreveport, La.....

961

examination, etc., to be made on perma-

nently separating waters of, from

the Mississippi...

658

preliminary examination of, to bemade.. 669, 675

Red River of the North, Minn. and N. Dak., appropriation for improvement of.. .... 657,947

bridge authorized across, at Drayton,

N. Dak.....

894

Fargo, N. Dak...

907

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Reddings Ferry, Ark., bridge authorized across Saline River at.. 179

Redemption ofInternal-Revenue Stamps,

deficiency appropriation for....... 219, 225, 1321

ccxxii

INDEX .

Redfield, N. J.,

Page.

appropriation for public building...

1380

Redfield, S. Dak.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

692

Reds, Vermilion,

duty on..

15

Redwood Creek, Cal., appropriation for improvement of.......................... 662

Reed, E. J.,

deficiency appropriation for.................

120

Reeds,

duty on, chair cane

34

on free list, unmanufactured, in the rough

for canes, etc.....

81

Reels,

duty on fishing..

28

Reform School, D. C. (see National Training

School for Boys, D. C.).

Reform Schoolfor Girls, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.

407,998

parole to juvenile offenders committed to. 300

Reformatories and Correctional Institutions,

D. C.,

appropriation for Washington Asylum- and

Jail...

406, 997

for Home for Aged and Infirm.

407,998

for National Training School for Boys.. 407, 998

for Reform School for Girls...

407,998

Reformatory, D.C. (seealsoWashingtonAsylum

and Jail),

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses, etc ....

785

superintendent, etc., to be appointed..

786

duties, authority, etc..

786

jurisdiction of Commissioners over pris-

oners, etc.....

786

interchangeable appropriations..

786

inmates to be released in the District on

expiration of sentence..

464

title to site for new, to be in United States;

condemnation authorized .....

122

Refrigerating Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce..

545

Refrigeration, International Congress of,

invited to meet in United States; no ex-

pense...

886

Refugio Colony Land Grant, N. Mex.,

homestead patents allowed settlers on

lands excluded from...

896

Refund ofCustoms Charges,

indefinite permanent appropriation for,

exceeding amount due....

103

Refund ofInternal- Revenue Taxes,

deficiency appropriation for, reissue of

drafts for...

778

for, illegally collected..

219, 1390, 1392

Regalia,

on free list, not for sale, for religious, edu-

cational, etc., purposes...

79

term specifically described.

79

Register ofthe Treasury, appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc.. 490, 1192

Register ofWills, D. C.,

appropriation for furnishing copies of wills,

etc., to assessor..

382, 974

for fireproof file cases..

383

Registered Mail, Postal Service,

appropriation for indemnity for lost first-

class domestic .....

365, 1337

third and fourth class matter included ;

limit....

1337

for indemnity for lost international arti-

cles ....

365,-1337

Registered Mail, Postal ServiceContinued. Page.

appropriation for indemnity for lost inter-

national articles; payment for prior

years under Postal Union regulation. 1338

deficiency appropriation for indemnity for

last...

224, 812, 814, 1325, 1327

for international.

1325

receipt on delivery, to be given when re-

quested..

416

Registered Mails Division, Post-Office Depart-

ment,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, etc.....

520, 1223

for per diem assistant superintendents.. 521 .

Registers, Land Offices,

appropriation for salaries and commis-

sions....

739, 1414

deficiency appropriation for salaries and

commissions..

222, 226, 810

payment directed of fees earned by issuing

notices of canceled entries..

.1351

certification of accounts....

1352

limitation .......

1352

to account, etc., for cancellation notice

fees the same as others...

1352

Registry System, Postal Service, appropriation for supplies.....

365, 1338

Regulations, D. C., Building, etc., issue and sale of, authorized; proceeds..... 208

Regulus ofAntimony,

duty on..

29

Regulus ofCopper,

on free list..

74

Reid, Lieutenant-Commander James H.,

may be placed on Navy retired list as com-

mander....

829

Reid, R. L.,

deficiency appropriation for.....................

801

Reidsville, N. C.,

appropriation for public building....

1380

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized; additional ground..

680

Reimported Domestic Articles,

duty to be paid on, equal to internal-reve-

nue tax..

90

880

manufactured in bonded warehouses, sub-

ject to original duty..

90

proof of identity..

91

Reindeer, Alaska,

appropriation for support of stations,

etc.

744, 1420

deficiency appropriation for support of.. 222, 810

Reisinger, Major Harold C., Marine Corps,

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts..

1305

Reliefand Protection ofAmerican Seamen,

appropriation for, shipwrecked in foreign

countries, etc..

346, 1036

Religious Associations,

exempt from corporation tax, if not for

profit....

113

Religious Freedom,

to be secured by constitution of Arizona.. 569

of New Mexico...

558

Religious Societies, etc.,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit...

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for..

78

Religious Societies, Incorporated,

on free list, works of art, etc., for presenta-

tion to..

81

Remount Depots, Army,

detachment ofenlisted men authorized for. 1049

Removal ofCausesfrom State Courts,

provisions of Judicial Code relating to..... 1094 repeal of Act, by Judicial Code ........ 1168

INDEX .

ccxxiii

Rendered Oils,

Page.

duty on, not specially provided for....... 12

Rennets,

on free list......

79

Reno, Nev.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing...

207

Reno Road, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing....

887

appropriation for expenses, etc......

888

Rent,

appropriation for Department of Agricul-

ture..

437, 1261

for Department of State.

485, 1187

for Treasury Department..

493, 1195

for War Department...

504, 1206

for Navy Department.

511, 1213

for Interior Department; restriction.. 516, 1218

for Post-Office Department...

522, 1224

for Department ofJustice.

524, 1225

for Department of Commerce and La-

bor....

529, 1232

for Court of Customs Appeals.....

1234

deficiency appropriation for Court of Cus-

toms Appeals....:

214

Rent of Court Rooms, etc.,

appropriation for..

750, 1427

Repair Shops, D. C., Postal Service, appropriation for rent, power, light, etc. 356, 1328 employees allowed 30 days annual leave.. 1336

Reporter ofthe Supreme Court,

appointment..

1152

duties to publish decisions..

1153

salary; extra volumes, etc.

1153

Reporting Proceedings in Congress,

appropriation for House of Representa-

tives......

477, 1180

for Senate.

473, 1175

deficiency appropriation for extra services

official reporters, House of Repre

sentatives....

805, 1317

for Senate...

804,1314

Reports, Congressional,

reserved sets of, discontinued ........

868

Reports ofthe Sixtieth Congress,

distribution of, to retiring members, re-

pealed..

183

Representatives in Congress,

appropriation for compensation........ 473, 1175

for mileage.......

473, 1176

for clerk hire.

478, 1180

distribution of documents, reports, etc., of

Sixtieth Congress to retiring; re-

pealed..

183

publicity to contributions for elections

of..

822

punishment for practicing in Court of

Claims.....

1136

unpaid bills for speeches, etc., to be

deducted from salaries of delin-

quent....

1446

Reproducing Plats ofSurveys, appropriation for...
Rescue Appliances, Miners', on free list..

740, 1415 77

Reservation No. 185, D. C.,

transferred to District Commissioners as a

property yard..

383

Reservations, D. C.,

appropriation for care and improvement

of....

725, 1402

Reserved Sets ofCongressional Documents and

Reports,

discontinued ...

868

Reservoirs, etc.,

Page.

cooperation with water users under recla-

"mation projects for, to impound wa-

ter for irrigation....

926

grants to railroads on trust' allotments to

Indians; payment....

349

investigation of feasibility, etc., of im-

pounding flood waters of rivers by.. 956 Resident Commissioners,

appropriation for compensation.... for expenses..

473, 1175 473, 1176

for clerk hire.

478, 1180

for stationery..

183

tenure of present, from Philippine Islands. 910

after March 4, 1913, to be four years.. 467, 910

stationery allowance, clerk hire, and frank-

ing privilege of Members accorded

Philippine.....

467,910

punishment for practicing in Court of

Claims......

1136

Resin,

on free list, crude gum, not specially pro-

vided for....

75

Resins, Gum,

duty on.

13

Resorcin,

on free list..

74

Restraint ofTrade, Combinations in,

purchases of structural steel armor, etc., for

ships of the Navy not to be made

from...

1289

jurisdiction of district courts under laws

against...

1093

Retail Dealers in LeafTobacco,

persons regarded as...

111

registry and accounts required .

111

sales of natural leaf, in the hand, by, free

of tax..

111

except to manufacturers.

111

statement to be made to revenue officers.: 111

penalty for false, etc...

111

Retired Judges,

appropriation for salaries.. provisions for salary of.....................

529, 1233 1161

Retorts, Gas,

duty on.

19

on free list, platinum, for chemical uses... 78 Revenue-Cutter Service,

appropriationfor expenses. for seal fisheries, etc. , Alaska....

711, 1388 711, 1389

for enforcing anchorage regulations, New

York and Chicago....

712, 1389

Kennebec River, Me..

712, 1389

Saint Marys River, Mich.

712, 1389

for Arundel Cove, Md., depot.

712, 1389

for contingent expenses...

712, 1389

for repairs to cutters..

712, 1389

for two revenue cutters.

712

Ediz Hook, Wash., wharf, etc., trans-

ferred to...

712

completion ofstorehouse, etc., Waadah

Island, Wash., balance to be covered

in....

712

deficiency appropriation for expenses..

219,

809, 1320, 1326

burial of officers and men in national

cemeteries ....

1389

Fort Trumbull, Conn., transferred to...

906

concurrent use ofwharfwith Army boats. 907

officers detailed on investigations may ad-

minister oaths..

899

officers, employees, etc., may be trans-

ported on Army transports....... 1051

penalty for discriminating by theaters, etc.,

against wearers of uniform of.............

963

cexxiv

INDEX .

Revenue-Cutter Service-Continued.

Page.

two new steamers authorized.....

326

retirement of vessels now in service ..... 326

to be constructed under eight-hour law.. 826

transfer of stations authorized..

326

Revenue Stamps, Foreign,

on free list..

79

Revenuesfrom Customs,

appropriation for collecting, additional. 716, 1393

deficiency appropriation for collecting.

219,

781, 809, 1294, 1320

Revenues, Frauds upon the,

appropriation for investigation and prose-

cution of....

748, 1424

deficiency appropriation for investigation

and prosecution of..

213

payment of special assistant attorneys. 213

Revised Statutes,

amended, section 183..

898

section 240..

776

section 241.

776

section 246.

231

section 429.

-591

section 773.

294

section 810.

267

section 996..

1083

section 1309.

312

section 1319.

323

section 1399.

352

section 1709.

1083

section 1832.

773

section 1833.

773

Bection 1834.

773

section 1956.

327

section 1959.

327

section 1960.

327

section 1961.

328

section 2500.

90

section 2502.

87

section 2504.

12

section 2505.

71

section 2508.

91

section 2509.

91

section 2513.

88

section 2562. section 2566. section 2568. section 2569. section 2586 . section 2587. section 2593 .. section 2730.. section 2982. section 3015 .. section 3244 . section 3255 .. section 3287 . section 3362. section 3368.. section 3392 . section 3394.. section 3536.. section 3548.. section 3549. section 3689 . section 3720 .. section 3734. section 3928 .. Eection 3939 . section 4219.. section 4934.. repealed, section 2-7 . section 860.. section 1962. section 1963 . section 1964..

592, 897 11 335 335 579 579
467 894 88 90 111 1014 1014 108 109 109 110 1354 1354 1354 773 591 699 416 630 111 843 231 352 328 328 828

Revised Statutes-Continued. repealed, section 1965.. section 1966....... section 1967.. section 1968. section 1969. section 1970. section 1971.. section 1972 . section 2608. section 2838. section 2839.. section 2841. section 2843. section 2845 . section 2853. section 2854. section 2856 . section 2858 . section 2860.. section 2871. section 2900. section 2902.. section 2905. section 2907.. section 2908.. section 2909. section 2922.. section 2923 .. section 2924. section 2927. section 2929. section 2930. section 2931 . section 2932. section 2943 .. Bection 2945. section 2952. section 3011. section 3012. section 30121. section 3013 . section 3672. section 4035. section 4232. section 4653. section 4654. section 4655. section 4656. section 4657 . section 4658.. section 4659. section 4660. section 4663. section 4664 . section 4665. section 4666 . section 4667. section 4669. section 4670...... section 4671. section 4902 ..
repealed by Judicial Code, sections 530560
sections 562-564. sections 567-627. sections 629-647. sections 650-697... section 699.. sections 702-714.. sections 716-720 .. section 723.. sections 725-749 . sections 800-822 . sections 1049-1088. sections 1091-1093 ..

Page. 328 328 328 328 328 328 328 328 104. 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 901 104 104 104 104 101 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 773 415 112 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 539 843
1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168 1168

INDEX .

CCXXV

Revolving Pistols, duty on....

Page. 28

Rhode Island,

appropriation for naval training station . 609, 1269

assigned to first judicial circuit .

1131

Rhode Island Judicial District,

terms of court..

1123

"Rhode Island," U. S. S.,
appropriation for repairs.. Rhodium,
on free list......

..... 620, 1276 76

Ribbons,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair..

60

cotton, flax, etc..

50

silk....

59

velvet or plush..

57

tinsel wire, etc..

30

woolen....

54

Rice,

duty on...

35

flour or meal..

35

paddy...

35

Rice Wine,

duty on..

40

Richardson County, Nebr., payment per capita to Sac and Fox Indians

in drainage district No. 1 ....

368

appropriation for assessment increased; re-

imbursement....

368

for drainage assessment, lands ofIowaIn-

dians..

369

Richardson, R. H.,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses, House of Representa-

tives....

806

Richardson, Tenn.,
cable authorized across Mississippi River from Morgans Point, Ark., to........ 586

Richfield, Utah, appropriation for public building................... 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

692

Richmond, Cal.,

preliminary examination to be made ofhar-

bor..

955

Richmond, Ky.,

terms of court at.

1112

Richmond, Va.,

appropriation for public building..... 706, 1380

for rent.....

... 706, 1380

monument to be erected over grave of

President Tyler, in Hollywood Cem-

etery .

1345

term of circuit court of appeals at.

1132

terms of district court at..

1128

Ricinoleic Acid,

duty on.....

14

Ridley River, Pa.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

Rifle, Colo.,

granted lands for public park.................

460

Rifle Contests,

appropriation for trophy, medals, etc.,

for....

.... 261, 1058

Rifle Ranges, appropriation for land in Nebraska for............ 722

Rifles,

duty on..

27

combination shotguns and..

27

double barrels for breech-loading sport-

ing.....

27

parts and fittings for double-barreled

sporting breech-loading..

28

stocks for double-barreled sporting.

28

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11-108

2828 CORDAN 11

Rifles and Machine Guns, Navy, appropriation for......
Rifles, Army Automatic,

Page. 1271

appropriation for purchase, etc., of; avail-

able for two years....

261, 1058

Right of Way,

for electric lines may be granted for fifty

years, over national forests, public

lands, reservations, etc.

1253

granted through Arkansas public lands... 296

Celilo Canal, Oreg......

230

Comanche Indian school lands, Okla... 588

Fort D. A. Russell Reservation, Wyo., to

Colorado Railroad Company..

1012

Laramie County for a public road ..... 1012

Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation,

Kans ...

875

Fort Mackenzie Military Reservation,

Wyo...

1011

Fort Riley Military Reservation, Kans.. 1363

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Ókla.. 268

Hot Springs Reservation, Ark..

235

locks on Monongahela River, W. Va.. 930

over Government tide and shore lands, Alaska.....
Siletz Indian Reservation, Oreg.
Sparta, Wis., military rifle range, etc.... Vicksburg, Miss., National Cemetery.. stations required at town sites on, across
Indian lands......

1360582 298 926
859

time extended for Alaska Short Line Rail-

road ...

459

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation,

Nebr......

921

Rio Grande,

appropriation for two bridges across, at In-

dian pueblos, N. Mex...

1062

bridge authorized across, Del Rio, Tex., to

Mexican bank.

853

El Oro, Tex., to Presidio del Norte, Mex-

ico....

853

between Laredo, Tex., and Nuevo

Laredo, Mexico...

188

Rio Grande Irrigation Project, Tex. and N. Mex.,

lease of power privilege on, allowed for not

exceeding fifty years.

931

Rio Grande National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251

River and Harbor Appropriations,

unexpended balances of, for essential

works, not to be covered in....

182

River and Harbor Improvements,

appropriation for construction, mainte-

nance, etc ....

630, 933

for construction of works on, under con-

tracts...

728, 1405

Saint Croix River, Me.; cooperation

with Great Britain.

631

Newport, R. I., contracts authorized . 632

Providence River and Harbor, R. I.,

contribution by Providence.....

632

Jamaica Bay, N. Y., subject to contribution by city of New York.... 634
Hudson River, N. Y., general plan... 635

Delaware River, depth of 35 feet from

Philadelphia...

637

contracts authorized ..

936

inland waterway Norfolk to Beaufort

Inlet. purchase of canals...

640

Savannah River,.Augusta, Ga., subject

to contribution by City...

643

Black Warrior, Warrior, and Tombig-

bee Rivers, Ala.; contracts author-

ized .....

646, 942

ccxxvi

INDEX .

River and Harbor Improvements Continued. Page. | River andHarbor Improvements Continued. Page

appropriation for construction; Missis

sippi River passes.

647, 942

Houston Ship Channel, Tex., contri-

appropriation for construction; South Haven, Mich., contracts authorized ... 947
Chicago, Ill., contracts authorized .... 947

bution from State navigation dis-

trict...

649

dredging plant for Arkansas River... 651

Cumberland River below Nashville,

Tenn., contracts authorized .....

651

Kentucky River, Ky., contracts au-

thorized ...

652

Ashtabula, harbor, Ohio, contracts au-

thorized..

653, 946

Ohio River, contracts authorized for

locks and dams.....

... 654, 946

Saginaw Bay and River, contracts au-

thorized ..

656

Chicago River, Ill., contracts au-

thorized ..

947

Missouri River 6-foot channel, Kansas

City tomouth; contractsauthorized. 949

Humboldt Bay, Cal. , contracts author-

ized ...

949

San Pablo Bay, Cal., contracts au-

thorized...

949

Columbia and Lower Willamette,

Oreg., contracts for dredging plants,

etc...

950

Bellingham, Wash., contracts au-

thorized ..

951

Mississippi River Commission, expenses and improvements under. 658, 948

Grays Harbor and Bar Entrance,

Wash., contracts authorized ..

951

waterway from Lockport, Ill., to

Mississippi River, engineer commis

sion authorized ..

659

Missouri River, Kansas City to mouth,

commission on plan...

660

Willapa River and Harbor, Wash.,

contracts authorized..

951

Snohomish River, Wash., contracts

authorized:..

952

Hilo, Hawaii, contracts authorized... 952.

Missouri River, Saint Joseph, Mo.,

contribution by city .

661

for expenses of meeting of Permanent International Association of Naviga-

Sacramento and Feather Rivers, Cal.,

contribution by State, etc ...

662

Siuslaw River, Oreg., contracts, co-

operation of Siuslaw, etc..

663, 950

Willamette River, Oreg., new canal

and locks Willamette Falls; co-

operation by Oregon....

664

tion Congresses...

667

tor John H. Bankhead, services Inland

Waterways Commission.

667-

for emergencies; limit..

667

depth of water defined..

667, 952

payment for maintenance, repairs, etc.. 667, 952 surveys, etc., to be paid from amounts for

termination of work on Puyallup

waterway to Tacoma, Wash ..

665

Puget Sound-Lake Washington water-

way; contracts authorized..

666

improvement...

667, 952

work by contract or otherwise.

.... 667, 952

allotment of consolidated items, etc.... 667,952

uniform classification of traffic statistics

Mount Desert, Me., contracts author-

ized ....

933

New Bedford and Fairhaven, Mass.,

contracts authorized ..

934

required ...... combination of contracts..

668, 952 668

use of insufficient appropriations.

668

appropriation for preliminary examina-

Point Judith, R. I., harbor of refuge,

contracts authorized ..

934

Duck Island, Conn., harbor of refuge,

contracts authorized..

934

Connecticut River below Hartford,

contracts authorized...

934

Black Rock Harbor, N. Y., contracts authorized; privilege to Buffalo.... 935

Norfolk Harbor, Va. , contracts author-

ized ..

937

Winyah Bay, S. C., contracts author-

ized..

938

Coosa River, Ala., contract authorized to complete dam at Lock No. 4, etc.. 939
Hillsboro, Bay, Fla., contracts au- thorized .. 941

Saint Johns River, Fla., Jacksonville

to the ocean; contracts authorized .. 941

Gulfport, Miss. , transfer of dredge.... 942

Aransas Pass, Tex., contracts for deep-

water harbor..

943

Sabine-Neches Canal, Tex.; contracts authorized; local contribution, etc. 944

Ouachita River, Ark. and La.; con-

tracts authorized ..

945

tions, surveys, etc...

668, 953

special authority required for.

668, 953

restriction on supplemental reports. 668, 953

no project authorized until appropria-

tion made..

668, 953

preliminary examinations and surveys

ordered...

668, 953

survey and estimate if project ad-

visable...

668, 956

review of reports by Board of Engineers

for Rivers and Harbors....

668, 956

reports to Congress to show, terminal and

transfer facilities......

668

utilization of water power...

668

other associated subjects...

668

coordination of these subjects with

navigation ....

668

extension by board..

669

investigation of watersheds when neces-

sary..

669

streams affected by construction of dams. 669

printing ofreports prepared during recess

of Congress..

669,956

projects specified ..

669

payment for damages by vessels on river

Kentucky River, Ky.. contracts au-

thorized for Locks and Dams 13 and

14 ...

945

Conneaut, Ohio, contracts authorized . 946

Mackinac Harbor, Mich., contracts

authorized ...

946

and harbor work, limit....

676

temporary leases, etc., permitted without

written contracts, etc....

676

National Waterways Commission con-

tinued...

956

additional duties; details of officials

Marquette, Mich., contracts author-

continued ....

956

ized ....

946

final report...

956

INDEX .

ccxxvii

Kiver andHarbor Improvements Continued. National Waterways Commission; special investigations ordered; expenses... Corps of Engineers, Army, increased .. on river and harbor, duty to be paid from amount for improvement... filling vacancies in grade of second lieutenant......

Page. 956 957
957 957

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

for damages to vessels, etc......

1301

River Gunboat, Navy,

construction of one, authorized; cost..... 1287 River Junction, Fla.,

bridges authorized across Escambia Bay,

Choctawhatchee and Apalachicola

Rivers, Fla., between Pensacola

and ....

233

Rivers,

unexpended balances for essential work

on, not to be covered in................... . 182

Rivers and Harbors,

authority for additional professional, etc.,

assistants on, repealed......

503

preliminary reports and surveys of, to be

printed.....

183

Rivers, etc.,

appropriation for lighting of............................... 754, 1431

Riverside, Cal.,

appropriation for Sherman Institute Indian

school...

273, 1063

deficiency appropriation for Indian school

at.

226,811, 1323

Rivet Rods,

duty on iron or steel wire........

24

Rivets,

duty on, for nonskidding automobile tires.

iron or steel, not specially provided

for...

29

lathed, machined , etc..........................

Road Construction, etc.,

appropriation for field experiments, etc... 1264 Road-Making Materials,

appropriation for investigations and ex-

periments in..

1263

Road Management, etc.,

appropriation for investigations, etc.... 439, 1263

Roadways, D. C.,

appropriation for paving, under permit

system...

384, 975

Roanoke River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of........................... 642

Roanoke, Va.,

appropriation for public building.

706

for rent..

706

terms of court at..........

1128

Robertson, David,

authorized to be retired with full pay, etc.,

as hospital steward, Army......

1345

Robeson County, N. C.,

bridge authorized across Lumber River, between Lumberton and Alma, in.. 178
Robinson, Hancock,

deficiency appropriation for services .... 216, 879

Robinson, Ill.,

appropriation for public building...

1380

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized .........

685

Robinson, Samuel,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices...

129, 807, 1319

Robinson, Lieutenant-Colonel, W. W., jr.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

778

Rochelle, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

681

8288

Rochelle Salts,

Page.

duty on..

12

Rochester, N. H.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

682

Rochester, N. Y.,

terms of court at..

1120

Rochester, Pa.,

appropriation for public building ...................... 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

691

Rochester, Major William B.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts..

1300

Rock Asphalt, Limestone,

duty on..

18

Rock Creek Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for strengthening, etc. , at

Calvert Street...

387

Rock Creek, D. C.,

appropriation forconstructing bridge across,

etc., at Q Street...

' 979

Rock Creek Park, D. C.,

appropriation for care and improvement. 392, 983 Rock Crystal,

duty on articles of, not specially provided

for..

21

Rock Island Arsenal, Ill.,

appropriation for oil- storage tanks ...

720

for filtration plant..

1398

for power plant.....

720, 1398

for operating, etc., bridges... Rock Island, Ill.,

720, 1398

appropriation for public building.. for rent..

1380 706, 1380

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677 Rock River,

dam authorized across, near Byron, Ill.. 922

Lyndon, Ill...

920

Rock Springs, Wyo.,

limit of cost increased, public building............ 679

Rockets,

duty on...

66

Rockhall, Md.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 639, 937´

Rockingham Earthenware,

duty on..

18

Rockland, Me.,

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor.....

953

Rockport and Aransas Pass Railway Company,

may bridge Morris and Cummings Channel,

Tex...

588

Rockport, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

Rockville, Conn.,

appropriation for public building....... 1380

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

689

Rocky Mount, N. C.,

appropriation for public building..

1380

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized.

687

Rocoa, and Extracts of,

on free list...

72

Rods,

duty on, copper

30

fishing....

28

iron or steel, cold rolled, etc..

25

nail, iron or steel...

24

nickel..

31

wire, iron or steel..

24

Roe ofFish,

duty on...

37

Rogers City, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 655

ccxxviii

INDEX .

215 22 888 52 PER 1 2 2 555

Rogue Indian War,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for expenses.... 220

Rolfe, Mary Lorena, Indian Allottee,

trust patent in Wisconsin made to, can-

celed ...

833

Rolla, Mo.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized ......

682

terms of court at; rooms required .

585, 1117

Roller Bearings,

duty on iron or steel..

22

Roman Candles,

duty on...

66

Roman Cement,

duty on..

17

Rome, Ga.,

appropriation for public building ....... 1381

limit of cost increased, public building..

677

terms of court at

1109

Rome, Italy, appropriation for quota, International In-

stitute of Agriculture at..

343

for participating in exposition ofart and

history at....

345

deficiency appropriation for quota, Inter-

national Institute of Agriculture at. 774

Rondout Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for lighthouse at mouth of,

Hudson River...

1430

Rondout, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 635, 935

Roofing Felt,

duty on..

61

Roofing Slates,

duty on..

21

Roots,

duty on, chicory...

39

dandelion, prepared..

39

drugs...

13

flower or foliage, bulbous, not otherwise

provided for..

37

on free list, bulbous, not edible, not other-

wise provided for...

79

crude, bulbous, not specially provided

for...

75

crude, drugs, not specially provided for. 75

dandelion, raw, unground..

75

for Department of Agriculture or Botanic

Garden....

78

licorice, unground....

76

Rope,

on free list, hide.........

76

Roping, Cotton, duty on. 42

Rose, Briar,

duty on stocks, etc., of....

37

Rose, Manetti Multiflora,

duty on stocks, etc., of......

37

Rose Plants, etc.,

duty on.

37

Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

time extended for payments by home-

steaders on surplus lands of..

265

interest to be paid..

265

compliance with homestead laws..

265

unallotted , etc., lands in Mellette and

Washabaughcounties, to be sold; de-

scription ..

448

timber lands excepted...:

449

relinquishment of allotments..

449

reservation for agency, school, etc..

449

patents to religious organizations..

449

opening to entry by proclamation ..

449

allotments to be completed before.... 4-49

town sites to be surveyed, etc ..

449

payments; use of proceeds.

449

Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak.-Cont'd
appraisal and sale of homesteads. classification of lands............. timber lands reserved for Indians.
method of payment and entry.... reappraisal of undisposed of lands. deposit of proceeds to credit of Indians. sections 16 and 36 granted to South Dakota;
lieu land selections; restrictions......... lieu land selections extended to the
whole reservation; restrictions...
appropriation for purchase of school lands. for expenses of appraising, etc. , reimbursement ..
intoxicants prohibited .
liability of United States defined .. treaty rights unimpaired.. time extended for classifying, etc., unallot-
ted lands in..

Page. 450 450 450 450 451 451
451
1073 451
451 451 451 452
1073

Roseburg, Oreg.,

appropriation for public building.

1381

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

691

RosemaryOil,

on free list...

77

Roses,

on free list, attar of.........

77

Rosewood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.....

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only..

81

Rosin Industry,
census inquiries as to... Rosin, Violin,

4,228

duty on.

70

Roswell, N. Mex.,

appropriation for public building...... 706, 1381 Rotten Stone,

on free list, crude, etc ..

79

Roucou, and Extracts of,

on free list.

72

Rouge River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of; restric-

tion....

655, 947

Roumania, Servia, and Bulgaria,

appropriation for minister to..

337, 1027

for secretary of legation and consul-

general. Round Iron,

338, 1028

duty on.

22

in coils or rods...

22

Routt National Forest, Colo. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251 Roving,

duty on, cotton .

42

ramie....

49

Rowell, James F.,

*82*8.888

enrollment, etc., directed as intermarried

Kiowa Indian, adopted by tribe....

allotment ofland to...

534

allotment of land to, canceled ..

Rubber, India (see also India Rubber),

on free list, crude, etc.....

76

Ruties,

duty on, artificial, etc.

cut but not set.

68

Ruchings,

dutyon, artificial silk or imitation horsehair

cotton, flax, etc..

50

silk..

Rufflings, Neck, duty on, artificial silk or imitation horsehair csioltkt.o.n.,..f.lax, etc....

Rugz duty on, Aubusson . Axminster...

INDEX .

ccxxix

Rugs-Continued.

Pages. Sabine-Neches Canal, Tex.-Continued.

Pages.

55455

duty on, Berlin .

board of engineers to consider project of

cotton..
flax, hemp, jute, etc... wool, floor..

improvement of..

649

49

conference with local interests, etc..... 649

55 Sabine Pass, Tex.,

woolen oriental, etc ..

appropriation for improvement of...... 649, 944

Rules ofthe House ofRepresentatives, Digest of,

Sabine River, La. and Tex.,

appropriation for preparing...

473, 1176 appropriation for waterway from Merman-

Rullman, Leo,

tau to......

648

deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

for improvement to Orange.

944

Rum (see Distilled Spirits).

board of engineers to consider project of

Rumbold, Frank M.,

improvement of, to Orange...

649

appropriation forreimbursing, for payments

conference with local interests, etc...... 649

to Missouri- State Militia....

1044 preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

Rumford Falls, Me.,

Sable, Alaska,

appropriation for public building..

1381 punishment for unauthorized killing of..... 327

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Sac and Fox Indians, Nebr.,

thorized..

690 payment to allottees, in drainage district,

Running Boards, Railway,

Richardson County...

368

cars to be equipped with.

298

amount retained for assessment increased 368

Rural Carrier Examining Board, Civil Service .

appropriation for, per capita .

368

Commission,

for drainage assessment increased; re-

appropriation for chief of division, clerks,

imbursement ...

368

etc..

483, 1185 Sac and Fox Indians ofthe Mississippi, Okla.,

Rural Delivery, Postal Service,

interest at five per cent authorized on fund

appropriation for supplies...

366, 1339

to credit of..

280

for carriers, etc... substation clerks. carrier on Lake Winnepesaukee.

366, 1339 Sac and Fox Indians of the Missouri, Kans.,

366, 1339 appropriation for fulfilling treaty with

1339

school

275, 1064

deficiency appropriation for.. for incidental expenses.
for supplies, etc.... for carriers..

224, 812, 1325 Sac and Fox Indians, Okla. and Ioia,

224, 812, 1327 agreement with, for commutation ofannu-

224, 812, 1325

ities, ratified...

289

225, 812

amount accepted ..

289

pension oaths may be administered by car-

rate and payment of interest.

289

riers; fees...

843 Saccharine.

star routes discontinued when served by.361, 1339 duty on...

34

Rural Mails Division, Post Office Department,

Sacks,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

duty on jute, plain, single-yarn fabrics............ 51

ant, clerks, etc....

521, 1223 | Saco River, Me.,

Russia,

appropriation for improvement of....... 631, 933

appropriation for ambassador to.
for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary.. for third secretary...
Rust, etc.,

337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028
338, 1028

Sacramento, Cal.,
appropriation for public building....... terms of court at...

706, 1381 589, 1107

Sacramento River, Cal., appropriation for improvement of...... 662, 950

no allowance for, on imports of iron or steel

or manufactures of...

25

for improvement of; controlling débris and floods; condition; amount re-

Ruta-Baga Seed,
duty on. Ruthenium,

quired from State....

662

37

modification of project..

663

for lighting..

754

on free list.

76 Saddles and Saddlery,

Rutland, Vt., terms of court at...

duty on leather...

69

1127

made of hides entitled to free entry.. 68

Rydmark, William,

Sadirons,

deficiency appropriation for.........

789 duty on cast-iron.....

26

Rye, duty on.. flour..

338

Safe Locomotive Engine Boilers,

36 appropriation for expenses, compelling

36

railroads to use...

... 1397

S. S Street, D. C.,

provisions for requiring railroads to use... 913 Safety Appliances on Railroads,
appropriation for enforcing use of...... 719, 1397

deficiency appropriation for extending........ 1297 Sabine-Neches Canal, Tex.,
appropriation for improvement of, from

equipment required on all cars after July

1, 1911 ; sill steps and hand brakes.. 298

secure ladders and running boards..

298

Port Arthur Ship Canal to the

Neches River...........

943

Neches River to Beaumont..

943

handholds or grab irons on ladders..

298

exception when long commodities re-

quire more than one car....

298

contribution by local interests; de-

posit...

944

maintenance of channel , etc......... 944

contracts authorized...

944

for improvement of, from Sabine River

to Orange.....

944

contribution by local interests; de-

posit..

944

standard equipment to be designated in six

months by Interstate Commerce

Commission...

298

penalty for failure to comply...

298

extension of period for cars in actual use 298

modifying height of drawbars....

299

penalty for violations........

299

hauling defective cars for repairs permitted 299

CCXXX

INDEX .

Safety Appliances on Railroads- Continued. Page. hauling defective cars at risk of carrier.... 299

liability for injuries to employees not

impaired..

299

· use of chains limited to cars with live

stock or perishable freight.....

299

moving defective cars except for repairs unlawful.. 299

penalty, etc..

299

powers ofInterstate Commerce Commission

extended to enforce.....

299

Safety Fuses,

duty on, not composed of cotton.....

66

Safety Lamps, Miners',

on free list..

77

Safflower,

on free list, and extract of......

79

Saffron,

on free list.....

79

extract of..

79

cake..

79

Sag Harbor, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673 Sage,

duty on.....

39

Saginaw River, Mich., appropriation for improvement of...... 656, 1406

Sago,

on free list, crude, and flour...

79

Saint Agnes Academy, Ardmore, Okla.,

payment to, from funds of Chickasaw Na-

tion, balance for tuition of Chicka-

saw children...........

282

Saint Albans, Vt., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 631

Saint Andrews Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 644, 1406

for improvement of channel from Apa-

lachicola River to......

645, 941

made subport of entry...

1080

Saint Ann's Infant Asylum, D. C.,

appropriation for care of children in... 410, 1001 Saint Augustine, Fla.,
release of strip of land at Fort Marion to.. 1057 Saint Charles, Mo.,
bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 600 Saint Croix County, Wis.,

bridge authorized across Saint Croix River,

between Washington County and. 235, 921

Saint Croix Falls, Wis.,

bridge authorized across Saint Croix River

between Taylors Falls, Minn., and. 263

Saint Croix River, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of...

631

negotiation with Great Britain for coopera-

tion, directed .....

631

unmanufactured produce of forests on,

sawed, etc., in Canada, admitted

free for two years....

91

Saint Croix River, Wis. and Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of.... 657,947

bridge authorized across, between Saint

Croix and Washington Counties,

Wis.....

235, 921

between Taylors Falls, Minn., and Saint

Croix Falls, Wis..

263

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Saint Francis, Ark.,

bridge authorized across Saint Francis

River, between Fisk and..

179

Saint Francis River, Ark. and Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of... 651, 945

bridge authorized across, Fisk, Mo... 179, 352

Parkin, Ark.....

199

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 669

Saint Francisville, Ill.,
bridge authorized across Wabash River by Saint George Island, Alaska,
made a special Government reservation... punishment for illegal landing on, etc...
purchase of seal leases on, etc...... Saint George Sound, Fla.,
preliminary examination of, to be made, for deep-water harbor...
Saint Joe National Forest, Idaho, appropriation for maintenance, etc., of....
Saint John River,
bridge authorized across, Van Buren, Me., to Saint Leonards, New Brunswick.
Saint John River Commission,

Page. 292 327 327 328
669 1251
904

deficiency appropriation for expenses of 203, 1290 Saint John River, Me.,

unmanufactured produce of forests on,

sawed, etc., in Canada, admitted

free for two years..

91

Saint John's Bread or Bean,

on free list...

79

Saint Johns, Fla., Customs District, name changed to Jacksonville..... 592

Saint Johns River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of, from

Jacksonville to ocean; contracts.. 645, 941

Palatka to Lake Harney.

941

for lighting....

754

light vessel authorized at mouth of..

536

preliminary examination of, to be made... 954

through Lake Dexter, etc...

670

from Jacksonville to Palatka.

670

of channel between Cumberland Sound

and..

954

Saint Jones River, Del., appropriation for improvement of....... 638, 937

Saint Joseph Bay, Fla., preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

transferred from Pensacola customs dis-

trict to Apalachicola..........

897

Saint Joseph, Mich.,

deficiency appropriation for barge for light-

house depot...

1313

barge for light-house depot, authorized ... 536

may bridge Morrison Channel of the Saint

Joseph River...

243

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor....

955

Saint Joseph, Mo., appropriation for improvement of Missouri

River at; contribution by city re-

quired .....

661

terms of court at..

1117

Saint Joseph River,

bridge authorized across Morrison Channel

of, by SaintJoseph, Mich..

243

dam authorized across, near Mottville,

Mich....

904

at Sturgis, Mich..

893

Saint Leonards, New Brunswick,

bridge authorized across Saint John River

to Van Buren, Me., from.....

904

Saint Louis and San Francisco Railroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Black River, at Pocahontas,

Ark..

178

Saint Louis Bay, Lake Superior,

appropriation for lighting channels in..... 754 Saint Louis Electric Bridge Company,

time extended for bridging Mississippi River at Saint Louis, Mo., by...... 196

Saint Louis Exposition,

deficiency appropriation for Indian exhibit

at.

223

INDEX.

ccxxxi

Saint Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company,
may bridge Black River, Paroquet, Ark... Saint Francis River, Parkin, Ark. White River at Augusta, Ark..
Saint Louis-Kansas City Electric Railway Company,
may bridge Missouri River, Arrow Rock, Mo....
Saint Charles, Mo.. Saint Louis, Mo.,

Page. |
198 . 199 199
601 600

Saint Petersburg, Fla.--Continued. preliminary examination to be made of harbor...
Saint Vincent's Orphan Asylum, D. C., charter amended; trustees, etc.; admission
of girls only.... Sake,
duty on. Sakonnet, R. I.,
prelimminaadrey..e.x.a.m..i.n.a.t..i.on of harbor, to be

Page. 954
590 -40
675 :

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

Sal Ammoniac, ?

office..

496, 1199 duty on...

12

for assay office at..

499 Sal Soda,

for public building, post-office....

706 duty on..

for post-office, mechanical equipment,

Salaries,

etc..

1381 monthly division of, in postal service..

: 17 1339

forsubtreasury, newsite...

1381 Salaries and Allowances Division, Post-Office

for customhouse, enlargement, etc..... 1381

Department,

acquiring site for subtreasury at, authorized....
enlargement of customhouse, authorized .. postmaster's pay increased.. term ofcircuit court of appeals at.. terms ofdistrict court at...
time extended for bridging Mississippi River at.....
bySaint Louis Electric Bridge Company. Saint Louis River, Minn. and Wis!,
preliminary examination of, to be made...

690 679 .1329 1133 1117
185
196
672

appropriation for superintendent, etc.. 519, 1222

for assistant superintendents.......

361

Salem, Mass.,'

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

672

Salem, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.

1381

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

687

alem, Oreg., appropriation for Indian school........ 283, 1071

Saint Lucie Inlet, Fla.,

Salem River, N. J.,

preliminary examination to be made of.... 955 appropriation for improvement of.............. 637,936

Saint Marks River, Fla.,

Salep, or Salop,

preliminary examinationof,tobe made .... 954 on free list...

79

Saint MartinsRiver, Md.,

Saleratus,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 671 duty on.....

16

Saint MarysandKingslandRailroadCompany,

Salicin,

may bridge Saint Marys River near Saint

on free list...

79

Marys, Ga......

855 Salicylic Acid,

Saint Marys, Ga.,

duty on..

12

bridge authorized across Saint Marys River

Salina, Kans.,

near.

855 terms of court at...

*707, 1112

Saint Marys River, Ga.,

bridge authorized across, at Saint Marys... .855

Saint Marys River, Mich.,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage, etc.,

regulations in...

712, 1389

for improvement of Hay Lake and Nee-

SalineLands, New Mexico, reserved from entry, etc ...
Saline River, Ark., appropriation for improvement of..
bridge_authorized across, at Reddings Ferry, Ark..

568 651 . 179

bish Channels...

729

forimprovementof, at the falls..

729

new lock, etc ..

730, 1406

forlighting Neebish Channel.

755

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Detour, Mich...........

672

Saint Michael Canal, Alaska,

Salisbury, N. C.,

appropriation for public building...... 707, 1381

deficiency appropriation for road to na-

tional cemetery...

....... 788

terms of court at ..

1120

Salkehatchie River, S. C., preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

appropriation for improvement of.......... 666 Salmon, Saint Paul Island, Alaska, duty on. 37

made a special government reservation.... 327 Salmon Fisheries, Alaska,

punishment for illegal landing on, etc.. 327 appropriation for agents.

purchase of seal leases on, etc......

328

for protecting ....

763, 1439 1441

Saint Paul, Minn.,

transfer of appropriation for launch, to

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

fresh-water mussel biological station. 763

at..

907 Salmon National Forest, Idaho,.

changes in harbor lines, etc., permitted at. 948 appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251

conditions, etc.....

949 Salt,

preliminary examination of harbor and

duty on.

-39

channel to be made......

672 entered in bond, may be used for curing

88

term of circuit court of appeals at..

1133

fish without paying duty...

39

terms of district court at..

1116 used for curing meats, entitled to drawback 39

Saint Paul Railway Promotion Company,

Salt Cake,

may bridge Mississippi River, Nininger,

duty on.

17

Minn...

958 Salt Lake City, Utah,

Saint Petersburg, Fla.,

appropriation for assay office at..

499, 1202

construction of public building author-

for public building...

709, 1381

ized at....

681 limit of cost increased, public building.... 679

ccxxxii

INDEX .

Salt Lake City, Utah-Continued. tents, etc., to be loaned for Grand Army encampment at.. terms of court at.
Saltpeter, duty on. on free list, crude....
Salts, on free list, aniline cinchona bark..

Page.
183 1127
16 78
72 78

Salls, Mineral, on free list, evaporated ; certificate required 77
Salvador,

appropriation for minister to........... 337, 1027

for secretary of legation and consul gen-

eral at San Salvador....

338, 1028

Salvors of Abandoned Imported Merchandise,

rights of, not affected by repeal provisions

of Tariff Act..

105

Sammamish River, Wash., preliminary examination of, to be made... 676

Sammons, Margaret R.,

deficiency appropriation for refund oftaxes,

D. C

1299

Samoan Islands,

appropriation for investigation of claims

for losses in..

1034

claims of citizens for losses in, to be ascer-

tained ..

592

San Angelo, Tex., appropriation for public building.. terms of court at.

707, 1381 1126

San Antonio, Tex. ,

appropriation for public building.

707

terms of court at..

1127

San Bernardino, Cal.,

appropriation for public building...

1381

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

689

San Diego, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 661

for public building...

707, 1381

limit of cost increased, public building. 677

terms of court at.

589, 1107

San Diego County, Cal.,

deficiency appropriation for resurveys in.. · 222

San Felipe Indian Pueblo, N. Mex.,

appropriation for bridge across Rio Grande

at.

1062

San Francisco, Cal.,

appropriation for dispatch agent........ 340, 1030

for transferring foreign mail from steam-

ships........

364, 1337

for assistant treasurer's office .

497, 1199

for mint at..

498, 1200

for improvement of harbor.

662, 1405

for examinations of water supply in Yosemite Park, etc. , for......... 745, 1440

for subtreasury building....

1381

Alaskan cases to circuit court of appeals to be heard at Portland , Seattle, or.. 1135

construction of subtreasury authorized;

cost.

695

paying for improving alley........

695

contracts for construction authorized ... 695

customs' appraiser at, salary increased .

894

gold certificates authorized for deposits of

foreign gold coin at..

965

invitation for assembling, etc., of fleets at

Hampton Roads, etc., on the way to

Panama-Pacific Exposition at....... 1289

may maintain pumping station, etc., on

Fort Mason reservation...

534

term of circuit court of appeals at.

1133

terms of district court at..

1107

San Francisco Exposition (see Panama-Pacific International Exposition).
San Francisco Immigration Station (see Angel Island, Cal .).
"San Francisco," U. S. S.,
appropriation for repairs; additional....... San Isabel National Forest, Colo.,

Page. 621

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251

San Joaquin County, Cal., bridge authorized across Stockton Canal in. 601

San Joaquin River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of, including Stockton and Mormon channels;

condition..

....... 663, 950

for lighting..

754

preliminary examination to be made of.. 955

Fremont and Stockton channels...

956

San Juan County, Utah,

appropriation for surveying public landsin 741 San Juan National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251

San Juan, P. R.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 666, 730

for lazaretto, etc. , continued..

710

for public building...

1381

lands, etc., near, granted to Porto Rico... 467

limit of cost increased, public building.

678

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

956

San Luis Obispo, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1406 San Pablo Bay, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of channel over Pinole Shoal; contracts........ 949

San Pedro, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 662

for breakwater light station..

1431

light and fog-signal station authorized at.. 929

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

669

San Salvador,

Saanpdp,ropriation for consul-general ....... 338, 1028

duty on, iron or steel, for abrasives.............

24

monazite .

30

on free list, crude or unmanufactured, not

otherwise provided for .

79

Sand Island, Ala.,

appropriation for light station, protecting

site.....

1431

Sand Key, Fla.,

appropriation for rebuilding, etc., weather

station at.............

418

Sandstone,

duty on, not specially provided for..................... 21

Sandusky, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 653

light and fog-signal station authorized at en-

trance to harbor....:.

536

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

674

Sandusky River, Ohio, preliminary examination of, to be made... 674
Sandy Bay, Cape Ann, Mass.,
appropriation for harbor of refuge....... 632, 934 Sandy Hook Army Proving Ground, N. J.,

appropriation for service magazine, etc......... 720

for underground electric system .

720

for current expenses...

597, 1342

for expenses of officers, etc........... 597, 1342

for protectingshore line....

1398

for sanitary improvements..

1398

Sanford and Everglades Railroad Company,

may bridge Lake Jessup in Orange County,

Fla.

330

2825

INDEX .

ccxxxiii

Sanger, M.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

1309

Sanitary Bureau, International,

appropriation for annual share of mainte-

nance..

343, 1033

Santa Barbara, Cal.,

appropriation for public building........................ 1381

preliminary examination to be made of har-

bor....

955

Santa Barbara National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 428, 1251 Santa Cruz, Cal.,

appropriation for public building...... 707, 1381

granted part of public-building site for

street purposes; conditions....

448

light and fog-signal station authorized at.. 537

Santa Fe County, N. Mex.,

lands granted to New Mexico to pay bonds,

issued by..

563

Santa Fe, N. Mex., appropriation for Indian school.. ..... 278, 1067

constitution to provide for capital of State

at, until 1926...

559

Santa Maria, Adolfo,

deficiency appropriation for payingaward of

SpanishTreaty ClaimsCommissionto 129

Santa Maria, William,

deficiency appropriation for paying awards

of Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion to children of..

129

Santa Monica, Cal.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home....

734, 1410

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

211, 220, 1301

Santa Rosa, Cal.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing....

207

Santa Rosa Sound, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of narrows

in......

645

Santee River, S. C., appropriation for improvement of..... 643,938

Santee Sioux Indians, Nebr., N. Dak., and

S. Dak. (see Sioux Indians, Different Tribes).

Santiago, Chile,

deficiency appropriation for participation

in Exhibition of Fine and Applied

Arts at...

203

Santiam National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of.... 1251

Santo Domingo (see Dominican Republic).

Santonin,

duty on, and all salts thereof.......

16

Sapelo, Ga., appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 643, 939

Sarasota Bay, Fla., appropriation for improvement of........................ 645

Saratoga Springs, N. Y..

appropriation for public building..

707

Satchels,

duty on leather......

68

Satilla River, Ga.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Satin White,

duty on..

15

Satinwood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc.....

33

on free list, logs, rough or hewn only....

81

Sauces,

duty on, not specially provided for...................... 36

Saugatuck, Mich., 'appropriation for improvement of harbor 655, 947

Saugatuck River, Conn.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of................ 633 Saugerties, N. Y., 1

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Sauk Rapids, Minn.,

time extended for dam across Mississippi

: River..

902, 931

Sauk Rapids Water Power Company,

time extended to dam Mississippi River at

Sauk Rapids, Minn....

902, 931.

Sault Sainte Marie, Mich.,

appropriation for public building.......... 707

Saunders, Honorable Edwin W.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses..

1317

Saunders, John L.,

deficiency appropriation for............

795

Sausages,

on free list, bologna...

79

Savanna Coal Company,

granted additional area to coal lease of

Choctaw Nation lands......

832

Savanna, Ill.,

appropriation for public building...

1381

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

689

Savannah, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor. 643, 939

· for improvement of waterway between

Fernandina, Fla., and..

644,941

bridge authorized across Back Riverbranch

of Savannah River, at....

180

preliminary examination of waterways to

be made from Louisville to......

670

terms of court at....

1109

Savannah River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Augusta, Ga....

643

at Augusta, Ga.; contribution by City

required..

643

below Augusta, Ga...........

644, 939

for lighting.

754

dam authorized across, at Cherokee Shoals,

S. C......

922

atmouth of Stevens Creek, S. C. and Ga. 180

preliminary examination of river and har-

bor to be made......

670

range lights authorized at Bloody Point... 536

Savannah River, Back River Branch of,

bridge_authorized across, at Savannah,

Ga ..

180

Savings, Postal (see Postal Savings Deposi-

taries).

Saw Plates,

duty on steel circular

25

Saus,

duty on, back.

29

band, steel...

29

circular..

29

crosscut .

29

drag..

29

hand ..

29

mill..

29

not specially provided for....

29

pit.

29

Sawtooth National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Saxony Carpets,

duty on.

55

Saybrook and Lyme Connecticut River Bridge

Commission,

may bridge Connecticut River between

Old Saybrook and Old Lyme, Conn. 228

Scabies in Sheep and Cattle,

appropriation for eradicating....

420, 1239

22222222*2 35

ccxxxiv

INDEX .

2*2 225 50

Scenery, Theatrical,

Page.

on free list, for temporary exhibition; lim-

itations...

78

Schappe Silk Yarn (see Silk). Schedules ofInterstate Commerce Rates, etc.,
filed with Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion, to be preserved as public

records ....

555

not providing notice of effective date, un-

lawful..

548

penalty for not complying with regulations

of Commission for.....

518

failing to give, or misstating, to shippers . 548

Schenck, C. P.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 803

Schenectady, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building................

1381

Schoenfell, J. Blair,

appropriation for reimbursement ..

1070

School Attendance,

census inquiries as to ......

4

Schools ,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit......

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for ....

78

Schools, D. C. (see Public Schools, D. C.).

Schools, Public,

maintenance to be secured in constitution

of Arizona .

570

to be in English.

570

of New Mexico ...

559

to be in English..

559

Schrader, Lieutenant-Colonel F. Von,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts ..

778

Sciences, Collections of,

on free list, by States, societies, etc. , not

for sale; conditions...

81

Scientific Apparatus, etc.,

on free list, for colleges, etc. , not for sale.. 78

for temporary exhibition, etc. , not for

sale; condition.....

81

Scientific Associations,

on free list, publications issued by...

73

Scientific Literature, International Catalogueof,

appropriation for expenses, preparation

of...

718, 1395

for printing and binding..

..... 768, 1447

Scientific Societies, etc.,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit..

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for...

78

Scientific Work. D. C.,

limit to salaries of investigators or em-

ployees on, paid from general appro-

priations..

440

Scissors,

duty on.

27

Scott, Captain W. S.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment to...

779

Scranton, Miss.,

made subport of entry, Pearl River cus-

toms district...

11

Scranton, Pa.,

terms of court at.

1123

Scrap,

duty on aluminum.

29

tobacco....

35

on free list, platinum..

78

rubber...

76

Scrap Albums,

duty on.

64

Scrap Iron or Steel,

duty on; limitation...

21

Screens,

duty on wood , etc ......

34

woolen ....

55

Screven, General James,

Page.

monument to be erected at Midway, Ga.,

in memory of General Daniel Stewart

and ...

1352

appropriation for construction, etc..... 1352 Screw Rods,
duty on iron or steel wire........ Screw's,
duty on wood.. Scroll Iron or Steel,

duty on..

Sculptures,

duty on, not specially provided for....

70

on free list, casts of, not for sale, for models

or educational purposes..

in existence more than twenty years

meaning of term under tariff act...

82

Scuppernong River, N. C..

appropriation for improvement of..

642

preliminary examination or, to be made.... 674

Sea Lion Rock, Alaska,

made a special Government reservation... 327

punishment for illegal landing on, etc... 327 Sea Grass and Seaweeds,

duty on, manufactured or dyed ......

17

Sea of Okhotsk,

citizens, etc., forbidden to hunt fur seals

in...

328

Seacoast Artillery, Army,

appropriation for boats for..

256, 1051

for altering, etc ....

597, 1342

for ammunition, etc., for practice.... 597, 1342

for altering, etc., insular possessions. 598, 1343

for supplies, expenses, etc..

598, 1343

Seacoast Artillery Organizations, State,

appropriation for ordnance material, etc., for; withdrawal in time of war..... 261
Seacoast Batteries,

appropriation for constructing in Philip-

pine Islands...

598

contracts authorized for additional, in

Philippine Islands...

598

for constructing, in Hawaiian and Phil-

ippine Islands..

1343

Seacoast Cannon, Army,

appropriation for ammunition for; and

practice...

597, 1342

for purchase, manufacture, etc., insular

possessions..

598, 1343

for ammunition, insular possessions.. 598, 1343

Seacoast Defenses,

appropriation for operating fire-control in-

stallations .

597, 1341

for barracks and quarters; limit for offi-

cers ..

721

for quarters, Philippine Islands and

Hawaii..

721

Seal Fisheries, Alaskan Fur,
appropriation for protecting. for expenses....
Seal Oil,

711, 1389 763, 1441

duty on.

14

Sealer of Weights and Measures, D. C. (see

Superintendent of Weights, Meas-

ures, and Markets, D. C.).

Seals, Alaskan Fur (see Alaskan Seal Fisheries).
Seals, Intaglio, appropriation for foreign mail.......... 366, 1339
Sealskins, Alaskan, taking and sale of, Pribilof Islands under Secretary of Commerce and Labor.. 326 proceeds to be paid into the Treasury..... 326
Seaman, Captain Claudius M.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

1295

INDEX .

CCXXXV

Seamen, Shipwrecked American,

Page.

appropriation for life-saving testimonials

for rescuing..

340, 1031

for relief and protection of, in foreign

countries, etc,

346, 1036

Seamen's Institute, Kobe, Japan,

appropriation for contribution to....... 347, 1036

Searchlightsfor Harbor Defense, appropriation for purchase, etc.. for Philippine Islands.... for Hawaiian Islands.....
Searcy, Ark.,

596, 1341 598
1343

construction of public building authorized

at....

680

Seattle Exposition,

deficiency appropriation for additional

electrical equipment.....................

130-

Seattle, Wash.,

appropriation for assay office at........ 499, 11320821 for public building.......

acquiring site for post office at, authorized. 692

Alaskan cases to circuit court of appeals to

be heard at San Francisco, Port-

land, or...

1135

may purchase lands in Cedar River drain-

age basin to protect water supply... 959

survey, appraisal, etc...

959

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

676

terms of court at..

1129

Seaweeds,

duty on, manufactured or dyed ..

17

on free list, crude or unmanufactured, not

otherwise provided for..

77

"Sebago," U. s. S.,

appropriation for repairs..

621

Second Assistant Postmaster General,

appropriation for, superintendents, clerks,

etc...

520, 1222

for division of railway adjustments.. 520, 1222

for division of foreign mails...

520, 1222

for division of railway mail service.. 520, 1222

for postal service, office of...

361, 1333

for transportation, etc.....

361, 1333

for railroad transportation......

361, 1334

reduction, land-grant roads....

361

for information of railroads carrying

mails...

362, 1335

for railway post-office car service..... 363, 1335

for Railway Mail Service .

363, 1335

for electric and cable car service..... 364, 1336

expenditure for wagon service..... 364, 1337

for foreign mails....

364, 1337

for travel and miscellaneous expen-

Bes...

364, 1337

Second-Class Mail Matter,

commission of three to be appointed to

examine, etc....

1334, 1458

one to be a judge of the Supreme Court, the other two holding no office...... 1458

one to be judicial or other officer, the

others holding no office....

1334

persons disqualified ..

1334

examination to be made of cost of handling

all classes of...

1334, 1458

report of proceedings and findings by

December 1, 1911..............

1334, 1459

appropriation for expenses.

1334, 1459

findings to be reported of cost of transporting the different classes of...... 1334, 1459
recommendation of rates for the different

classes to pay cost of transportation,

etc ..

1334, 1459

return of undelivered, at third-class rates.. 366

notice to publisher, etc .........................

366

Second-Class Mail Privilege Suits, appropriatian for counsel..

Page. 365, 1338

Second Judicial Circuit,

States included in...

1131

four circuit judges authorized for............

1131

Second Lieutenants, Army,

rules, etc., authorized to fill vacancies in

grade of..

1045

Second Street NW. D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 784

Secret Service Division, Treasury Department,

appropriation for chief, assistant, clerks,

etc ..

492, 1194

payment for details to suppress counterfeit-

ing, etc., prohibited..

715

Secretaries of Embassies and Legations,

appropriation for..

337, 1028

deficiency appropriation for salaries................... 1324

Secretary of Agriculture,

appropriationfor, Assistant, Solicitor, clerks,

etc.

416, 1235

for printing and binding annual report

of..

769, 1447

duties under Insecticide Act..

331

law clerks may be detailed for service in

or out of Washington by....

416, 1236

to certify recognized breeds of animals entitled to free entry for breeding..... 72

to examine, etc., lands necessary to regu-

lating navigable streams..

962

report to Forest Reservation Commis-

sion ....

962

purchase of approved lands..

962

sale of tracts not required...

962

regulation of purchased lands.

963

to make detailed statement of all expenses

and receipts of Forest Service from

1900 to 1910 ....

1265

to serve on National Forest Reservation

Commission :..

962

Secretary ofAgriculture, Annual Report of, appropriation for printing and binding. 769, 1447
Secretary of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 524, 1226

authorized to make regulations for killing

seals on Pribilof Islands, Alaska.... 326

to sell sealskins..

326

to fix compensation of natives, etc....

327

to prescribe regulations for killing fur-

bearing animals in Alaska...

327

to prevent illegal landing, etc., on Pribi-

lof Islands...

327

to prescribe regulations for killing seals

on Pribilof Islands.....

327

to employ additional force for protecting

Alaskan seal fisheries...

328

to purchase present leases for sealing

on Saint Paul and Saint George Is-

lands ....

328

to maintain depots for supplies, etc., on

Pribilof Islands...

328

to furnish food, etc. , to natives of Pribi-

lof Islands..

328

duties, Bureau of Light-Houses...........

537

relating to motor boats...

463

under Insecticide Act ..

331

may exchange site for immigration station,

Boston, Mass .....

702, 904

member of board on new building for De-

partment..

698

to adjust claims for damages from collisions

with lighthouse vessels....

537

to allow salaries to additional clerks for

naturalization purposes in offices of

clerks of courts...

830

ccxxxvi

INDEX.

Secretary of Commerce and Labor- Continued. to approve plans, etc., for memorial of dis-
covery of Lake Champlain.. to convey Alter Road to Detroit, Mich., as
a public highway.. to lay water main and electric cables across.
Galveston Channel, Tex .. to make regulations for radio-communica-
tion on ocean-going steamships ..... to make requisitions to pay for additional
clerical services in naturalization
cases .
appropriation for; regulations, etc.. to prescribe lights, fishways, etc., on dams
across navigable waters.. to transfer light-house tender "Wistaria"
to Public Health and Marine-Hos-
pital Service.

Page. 924 235 372 630
830 830 594
912

Secretary ofthe Interior, appropriation for, Assistants..

511, 1213

for assistant to, attorneys, clerks, etc .. 511, 1213

deficiency appropriation for condemnation

of land forMeridian Hill Park, D. C. 1310

chief clerk may be designated to sign offi-

cial papers, etc., for..

1213

adjustment and completion of railroad land

grants by...

834

authorized, to request transfers from the

Treasury for reclamation projects... 835

maximum amount, $20,000,000...

835

contracts with Choctaws and Chickasaws

for administering tribal affairs, authorized subject to approval of.. 1070

limit on, for legal services; approval of

President required...

1070

directed to open roadway through United States reservation for extension of

Fourth Street SE. , D. C...

243

duties, sale of lands to Seattle, Wash., to

protect water supply.

959

irrigation units of acreage and water

charges to be fixed by, before en-

tries, etc., allowed .....

836

may convey to Wyoming public lands for

those to be relinquished....

295

may grant lands to Cheyenne, Wyo ...... 291

Rawlins, Wyo ....

325

may grant railroads lands for reservoirs,

etc., on trust allotments to Indians;

payments to allottees..

349

may issue certificates of competency to

Indians for removing alienation re-

strictions ...

856

may lease for ten years building for Civil

Service Commission, etc..

795

may lease water to Masonic Lodge, Hot

Springs, Ark..

906

may reappraise and sell unsold lots in

town sites on reclamation projects.. 465 may sell Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indian

agency and school lands, etc. , El

Reno, Okla., for Masonic orphanage. 190

may sell lands, etc. , no longer needed for

irrigation projects ....

895

may withdraw notices issued of charges,

etc. , under reclamation act..

902

authorized to modify contracts, etc.

902

member of board on office building for

bureaus, etc., in Washington ...

699

reclamation projects not authorized until

recommended by...

836

statement of payments in Indian Service

to November 1st, repealed....

861

statements of employees at Indian schools,

etc., repealed..

861

Secretary ofthe Interior-Continued.

Page.

to allot lands to children of enrolled Yaki-

mas ...

349

to approve location, etc., of right of way,

Comanche Indian school lands,

Oklahoma .

588

Siletz Indian Reservation, Oreg.

582

to approve plans, etc., of dam across Colo-

rado River at mouth of Pyramid

Canyon, Ariz ...

909

protection of rights of Indians, etc.... 909

to control, etc., Glacier National Park,

Mont...

354

to convey lands on Red Lake Indian Res-

ervation, Minn., to Minnesota and

Manitoba Railroad Company....

292

to direct expenditures attending admis-

sion of State of Arizona..........

578

admission of State of New Mexico .

568

to dispose of reserved lands on Siletz Indian Reservation, Oreg.
todispose ofunallotted lands,etc. , Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, N. Dak..
Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak. Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak...
to exchange lands in Kansas National Forest.....

· 367
455 440 448
960

to investigate, etc., portion of southern

boundary line of Alabama..

844

to make annual statements of all with-

drawals for power sites, etc....

848

to pay delinquent taxes on Omaha allot-

ments in Nebraska from tribal

funds, etc......

348

drainage assessment on Omaha Indian

lands, Richardson County, Nebr... 369

heirs of Tay-cum-e-ge-shig from Chippe-

wa tribal funds..

330

per capita Sac andFox Indians, Richard-

son County, Nebr...

368

drainage assessment, amount increased. 368

to provide offices, employees, etc,, for Bu-

reau ofMines..

370

to reserve lands for Indians relinquishing allotments on reservoir, etc., sites,

Flathead Reservation, Mont...... 297

condemnation authorized ...

297

to reserve town sites on unallotted lands, Yakima Indian Reservation, Wash. 348

appropriation for expenses; disposition of

proceeds..

349 .

to serve on National Forest Reservation

Commission ..........

962

to subdivide and sell land on Flathead

Lake, Mont...

296

to transmit statement of fiscal affairs ofall

Indian tribes estimated for next

fiscal year; details...

289

Secretary ofthe Navy,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 506, 1208

for public works under...

617

annual reports, list of bids for supplies

abolished...

591-

may build new vessels at navy-yards if

bidders combine....

628

may loan to Detroit, Mich. , the silver serv-

ice presented to U. S. S. " Detroit;"

conditions .

1272

may loan vessels, etc., to marine schools.. 1353

may issue discharges in true names to per-

sons enlisting as minors under as-

sumed, in wars of the rebellion, with

Spain, and in the Philippines...... 824

to adjust claims for damages from collisions

with naval vessels..

607

INDEX .

ccxxxvii

Secretary ofthe Navy-Continued.

Page.

to report distribution of duties ofBureau of

Equipment to other bureaus........ 614

to send Congress complete schedule of all

pay and allowances to officers and

enlisted men of the Navy....... 606, 1266

to transfer wharf, etc. , Ediz Hook, Wash.,

to Revenue-Cutter Service ....

712

Secretary ofState,

appropriation for Assistants, clerks etc.. 483, 1186

salary increased...

1186

for replica of von Steuben statue to be

presented to German Emperor .... 886

deficiency appropriation for salary.

1290

may purchase sites, erect buildings, etc.,

for embassies, legations, and consu-

lates...

917

member of board on new building for De-

partment....

698

replica of statue of Gen. von Steuben au-

thorized for presentation to Germany

under direction of Joint Committee

on the Library and..

605

to ascertain losses by citizens in Samoan

Islands, 1899....

592

to invite Association of Navigation Congresses to meet in United States.... 667

to negotiate with Great Britain for improv-

ing Saint Croix River, Me.....

631

to select, etc. , employees for far eastern

division....

119

Secretary ofthe President ofthe United States, appropriation for, assistants, clerks, etc... 482

for executive clerk, clerks, etc..

1184

Secretary ofthe Senate,

appropriation for assistant, clerks, etc.. 468, 1170

Secretary of the Treasury,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc. 485, 1187

for divisions in Office of.

486, 1187

chief clerk may be designated to sign offi-'

cial papers, etc. , for.

1187

authorized to accept franchise from city of

New York, for pneumatic-tube serv

ice custom-house to appraisers'

stores...

120

to issue additional bonds at 3 per cent

forcompletion of Panama Canal, etc. 117 temporary certificates of indebtedness. 117

authorized to transfer to reclamation fund

amounts for completing projects.... 835

maximum amount $20.000,000 ..

835

certificates of indebtedness to be issued by,

for advances to reclamation fund... 835

custom-house brokers ' licenses may be re-

voked by; appeal..

464

regulations for. to be prescribed by... 465

designated on board of trustees to control,

etc., postal savings depositaries..... 814

of board on office building for bureaus,

etc., in Washington...........

699

board to approve plans, etc., for Wash-

ington post-office building.

698

to supervise construction..

698

of boards on buildings for Departments of

State, Justice, and Commerce and

Labor....

698

duties as to corporation surety bonds trans-

ferred from Attorney General to

241

under Insecticide Act...

331

may delegate assistant Secretaries or a

clerk to sign warrants..

231

may transfer stations, etc. , of revenue cut-

ters ..

326

Panama Canal bonds not receivable for

national bank-note circulation ...... 1013

Secretary of the Treasury-Continued .
proceedings to secure returns for corporation tax, subject to approval of......
stationery for Internal-Revenue Service to
be purchased under direction of.... to designate officials to control contingent
expenses.... to direct refund of excess customs dutics..

Page.
116 1195 776 103

to establish regulations for free entry pure-

bred animals...

72

to grant of strip from public building site,

Santa Cruz, Cal., to city for strect

use...

448

to issue notification of countries not- af-

fected with contagious cattle dis-

eases .

87

to make annual report of refund of excess

of customs charges..

103

to make regulations for entry of serial publications, etc., on one declaration... 92

to obtain plans, etc., for mechanical and

electrical equipment of new En-

graving and Printing Bureau build-

ing.

121

to prescribe regulations for inspection,

etc., of decisions of general ap-

praisers...

101

rules for lading and unlading vessels,

etc., at night; permitting pre lini-

nary entries, etc...

901

to provide two new revenue cutters...

326

to reopen, etc. , claim of Oregon for ex-

penses raising volunteers, etc ....... 777

Secretary ofWar, appropriation for, Assistant, assistant and

chief clerk, clerks, etc...

501, 1203

for road from Harrisonville, N. J., to

Fort Mott and Finns Point National

Cemetery....

350

for expenses of raising wreck of " Maine'

from Habana Harbor, etc....

353

authorized to deliver obsolete ordnance to

United Spanish War Veterans..

1457

erect monument over grave of President

Tyler, Richmond, Va.

1345

grant obsolete ordnance to Georgia..

875

purchase Cranston's Hotel to add to

Military Academy..

323

transfer transport "Ingalls " to Navy

Department...

256

duties relating to construction of dame

across navigable waters...

593

memorial to Abraham Lincoln, in Wash-

ington, D. C...

898

memorial monument Guilford Court-

house battle field .

899

hazing regulations, Military Academy, to

be approved by..

323

disposal of pending cases.

324

may admit to Military Academy, Melchar

Batista, of Cuba....

1458

Juan Torroella y Rooney, of Cuba.

324

two Chinese subjects ..

1456

may exchange lands for Cave Hill Na-

tional Cemetery, Ky....

236

may issue discharges in true names to per-

sons enlisting as minors under as-

sumed, in wars of the Rebellion, with Spain, and in the Philippines. 824

may loan tents, etc., to Appalachian Ex-

position Company, Knoxville,

Tenn ..

883

Confederate Veterans' reunion, Mobile,

Ala......

876

Elks' reunion, Detroit, Mich ..

885

ccxxxviii

INDEX .

Secretary of War-Continued.

Page.

may loan tents, etc., Confederate Veterans'

reunion, at Little Rock, Ark....... 1456

Grand Army encampment at Salt Lake City, Utah... 183

may sell land coast defense reservation, Na-

hant, Mass., to street railway com-

pany..

1348

on Dauphin Island, Ala., not needed for

military purposes...

1350

power of, etc., over franchise to Ragland

Water Power Company, at Lock No.

4, Coosa River.

939

to appoint commissioner of Chickamauga

and Chattanooga Park...

293

engineer board to consider, etc., with

State agents, waterway from Lock-

port, Ill., to the Mississippi by Illi-

nois and Desplaines Rivers ...

659

to report on plan for 6-foot channel in

Missouri River from Kansas City

to the Mississippi ..

660

to approve bond of custodian of property

in Executive Mansion, D. C...

774

construction of wharves, etc., in Lake

Michigan, Lake County, Ind ..

881

designs, etc., monument to Gens.

Screven and Stewart, Midway, Ga. 1352

dredging Island End River channel,

Chelsea, Mass...

369

location, etc., of cable across Mississippi River, Cairo, Ill., to Bird Point, Mo. 336
location, etc., of pumping station, etc. , on Fort Mason Reservation, Cal .... 534

location, etc., of right of way across

lands of Celilo Canal, Oreg....

230

Fort Leavenworth Reservation, Kans. 875

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla.. 268 military rifle range, etc., Sparta, Wis.. 298

to approve plans, etc., of bridge across

Snake River, Ontario, Oreg........... 191

dams, Turtle Bayou, Tex...

828

fish hatchery by Pennsylvania on

Presque Isle peninsula..

262

proposed obstruction of navigable waterways within the city of New York.. 866

monument commemorating first German

settlement in America...

1352

Valley Forge, Pa., memorial arch..... 822

to erect memorial monument at Fort Re-

covery, Ohio....

311

to secure transfer of Confederate Cemetery

at Springfield, Mo., to the National

Cemetery..

1077

to serve on National Forest Reservation

Commission..

962

to supervise laying main and cables across

Galveston Channel, Tex.

372

to transfer Fort Trumbull to Revenue-

Cutter Service.....

906

Securities, United States (see also Certificates of Indebtedness),

appropriation for distinctive paper..... 714, 1390

for witness destruction of.

.... 714, 1391

for canceling, etc....

714, 1391

for custody of dies, rolls, and plates.. 714, 1391

deficiency appropriation for distinctive

paper..

204, 1295

additional bonds authorized for comple-

tion of Panama Canal, etc...

117

one-year certificates of indebtedness at 3

per cent, authorized ..

117

limit increased to $200,000,000.

117

principal and interest of bonds and certifi-

cates of indebtedness payable in

gold coin.....

192

Security Companies,

Paga.

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

· joint commission to investigate, etc.,

rates of.....

126, 891, 1317

charters, etc., to be filed with Secretary of

the Treasury...

241

acceptance on surety bonds if satisfactory. 241

quarterly reports to be made by; further

inquiries, etc....

241

Seed Cane,

wwwwwwwww

on free list, for Department of Agriculture

or Botanic Garden.

78

SAAAAAAAAR 2222222 2 222222 22222222222

Seedlings (see Stocks, Cuttings, or Seedlings).

Seeds,

duty on, aromatic, not garden.

13

beet...

37

cabbage.

37

carrot..

37

castor.bean..

37

collard...

37

corn salad.

37

egg plant.

37

flaxseed...

37

kale.

37

kohl-rabi..

37

linseed ..

37

morbid growth.

13

parsley...

37

parsnip..

37

pepper..

37

poppy. .....

37

radish.

37

ruta-baga.

37

spinach..

37

turnip......

37

vegetable, not specially provided for....... 37

on free list, anise..

79

bulbs and bulbous roots, not edible, not

otherwise provided for...

canary..

caraway .

cardamon...

cauliflower..

coriander...........................

cotton..

crude, aromatic drugs, not specially pro-

vided for..

75

morbid growth, not specially provided for...
cummin..

evergreen seedlings. fennel..

fenugreek.. flower.

for Department of Agriculture or Botanic Garden..

grass...
hemp.. hoarhound..
mangel-wurzel . mustard..

rape.... Saint John's bread or bean..
sorghum cane for.. sugar cane for.. sugar beet...

Seeds, etc., Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for expenses of distributing,

etc ..

423, 1243

congressional distribution

423, 1244

notification of readiness..

423, 1244

mailing franks...

lo 423, 1244

distribution ; selection as to loccaality2;3 , 1244

southern delivery.....

report of purchases; diversion forbid-

den....

424, 1244

INDEX .

ccxxxix

Seeds, etc., Department of Agriculture-Con. . Page.

appropriation for collecting, from foreign

countries ..

.... 424, 1244

deficiency appropritaion for purchase and

distribution ...

224, 812, 814, 1324

Seines,

duty on, flax..

49

Seismological Association, International,

deficiency appropriation for expenses.. 344, 1290 Seizures under Federal Laws,

jurisdiction of United States courts, exclu-

sive of State, in.......

1161

Selma, Ala.,

terms of court at..

1106

Selway National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1251

Seminaries ofLearning,

2288

on free list, books, etc., for; .limit....

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for..........

78

Seminole Indians, Fla.,

appropriation for relief of distress, civiliza-

tion, etc., of......

274, 1063

Seminole Indians, Okla. (see also. Five Civi-

lized Tribes),

appropriation for tribal schools..

282

for suits to set aside illegal conveyances,

etc., of allotments..

744, 1425

funds arising from sales of lands, etc., of,

may be deposited in banks....

1070

approval of Secretary of Interior; use of

interest...

1070

Semiprecious Stones,

2828

duty on articles of, not specially provided

for......

21

cut, but not set...

68

Semitropical Fruit Plants,

on free list, for cultivation .

75

Semolina,

duty on.........

36

Senate,

appropriation for compensation ofSenators. 468,

1170

for mileage...

468, 1170

for secretary to Vice-President, etc... 468, 1170

for Chaplain....

468, 1170

for Secretary, assistant, clerks, etc.... 468, 1170 compiler of Navy Yearbook, etc..... 1171

forsuperintendent of document room. 469, 1171 for clerks and messengers to committees. 469,
1171

preparing Senate Manual..

1173

for Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper,

assistants, etc .....

471, 1173

formessengers, laborers, pages, etc.... 471, 1173

for employees and police force for Senate

Office Building..

471, 1174

for postmaster, assistant, etc....

471, 1174

forsuperintendent folding room, etc.. 472, 1174

for chief engineer, assistant, etc ..... 472, 1174

for contingent expenses, stationery and

newspapers .

472, 1174

for postage stamps.. for horses and mail wagons..

472, 1174 472, 1175

for folding materials, folding.

472; 1175

for fuel, oil, etc...

472, 1175

available for power plant..

472, 1175

for furniture, repairs, etc.. for packing boxes..

472, 1175 472, 1175

for miscellaneous items.

472, 1175

Maltby Building. for warehouse for documents..

472, 1175 472, 1175

moving documents.

1175

for inquiries and investigations........... 473, 1175

for reporting debates....

473, 1175

for compiler of Navy Yearbook and in-

dexer for Senate documents........ 766

Senate- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for printing and binding

for......

768, , 1446

for expenses of investigation of Interior

Department and Forest Service .

872

for subway transportation to Senate

Office Building..

1443

for refrigerating apparatus, cooling of

air, etc...

1443

deficiency appropriation for additional

elevator service ...

123

for repairs to kitchen and restaurant...... 123,

212, 1316

for Senate Office Building........

123, 212

for pages....

127

for automobile for Vice President... 127, 217

for miscellaneous items ..

127

for repairs, Maltby Building. for official reporters........

127,804, 1316 127,804, 1314

for additional services to Committee on

Finance ....

127

for E. L. Cornelius...

127

for month's extra pay to employees... 127,

804, 1317

for elevator conductors..

127

for John W. Evans.....

127,804

for Russell Williams..

127

for J. H. Jones..

127,803, 1315

for James V. Brooke..

216

for Hancock Robinson..
for inquiries and investigations..... for furniture.... for George H. Boyd ..

216, 879 217,879
217 217

for nephews and nieces of William B.

Allison ...

802

for widow of Anselm J. McLaurin..

802

Martin N. Johnson...

802

Samuel D. McEnery.

1314

John W. Daniel...

1314

Jonathan P. Dolliver.

1314

Alexander S. Clay.

1314

Stephen B. Elkins.........

1314

Charles J. Hughes..

1314

Thomas P. Cleaves..

1314

for Thomas W. Keller..

802

for attendant, bathing rooms Senate

Office Building....

802

for clerk to Sergeant-at-Arms..

802

for James F. Edwards..

802

for assistant clerk, Committee on Cuban

Relations....

803, 1316

for Robert W. Farrar..

803, 1314

for Dennis M. Kerr..

803, 1314

for Pitman Pulsifer...

803

for John H. Walker.. for F. C. Croxton.......

803, 1316 803

for Edward T. Clark... for Thomas P. Littlepage.. for Leonard Underwood.. for L. C. Drapeau...... for C. P. Schenck..... for John L. Steele...

803, 1316 803
803, 1316 803, 1315
803 803

for L. H. Landsittel..

803

for Charles M. Morris.

803

for Lee F. Warner...

803

for record of private claims..

803

for G. F. Snyder......

804

for J. W. Fenton, jr...

804

for Ansel Wold.

804

for Norris P. Taylor, H. R. Shoemaker,

and H. R. Howser, jr..

804

for F. H. Wakefield..

804, 1316

for employees, joint committee investi-

gating Interior Department and For-

est Service...

804

for folding speeches, etc.

804

ccxl

INDEX .

Senate-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for employees,

Senate Office Building, extra serv-

ices ..

805, 1316

for printing and binding..

806

for compiling and indexing reports and

hearings......

891

for joint commission on bonds of surety

companies..... for clerks to Senators..

891, 1317 1315

for stenographers to Senators.

1315

for Charles H. McGurrin ...

1315

for commission on employer's liability,

etc...

1315

for K. F. Lawler..

1315

for Joseph S. McCoy and James M.

Baker...

1315

for Harry B. Straight..

1316

for O. B. Kilbourn........

1316

for R. W. Thompson...

1316

for Otto C. Strom and Warren J. Davis.. 1316

for financial clerk...

1316

for Francis B. Lloyd ..

1310

for Julian M. Brown ..

1316

for Richard A. Shaw...

1316

coal for central heating, lighting, and

power plant to be paid for from ap-.

propriations for fuel and oil for

House and...

891

employees to be paid December, 1909,

salaries, December 20 .

871

December, 1910, salaries, December 21 . 1453

June, 1910, salaries on day of adjourn-

ment.

886

five Senators to be appointed on joint com-

mittee to investigate Alaskan af-

fairs.....

1444

joint commission on rates of bonding com-

panies, continued........

804

joint committee of House of Representa-
tives and, to investigate Interior Department and Forest Service .... 871

three Senators to be appointed on commis-

sion to Mexican centennial celebra-

tion....

882

printing investigation commission .

1444

two Senators to be appointed on commis-

sion to investigate employer's lia-

bility and workman's compensa-

tion ....

884

to serve on National Forest Reservation

Commission...

962

Senate Document No. 357,

printing ordered of copies of, for Depart-

ment of State....

1454

Senate Manual,

appropriation for revising, preparing, etc.. 1173

Senate Office Building,

appropriation for employees for, under

Sergeant at Arms..

471, 1174

for police force..

..... 471, 1174

for elevator conductors

472, 1174

for removing patent models to subbase-

ment of House or.......

516

for construction...

737

for metal shelving, library, etc.

738

for maintenance....

738, 1443

for gratings to area ways

1443

for refrigerating apparatus for .

1443

for transportation in subway to Capitol.. 1443

for trees, etc., for grounds of..

1403

dehciency appropriation for mainte-

nance.. for laying sidewalks.. for attendant, bathing rooms.

123, 212 795
802

Senate Office Building-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for employees in,

extra services..

805, 1816

for Elliott Woods, services..

1307

Senate Public Documents,

appropriation for indexer; assistant... 766, 1171

Senators,

appropriation for compensation..... 468, 1170

for mileage..

468, 1170

for clerks to

472, 1174

for stenographers to..

472, 1174

deficiency appropriation for clerks to.

1315 .

for stenographers to..

1315

from the State of Arizona to be elected .. 578

New Mexico to be elected...

567

punishment for practicing in Court of

Claims...

1136

unpaid bills for speeches, etc. , to be de-

ducted from salaries of delinquent.. 1446

Seneca Indians, N. Y.,

appropriation forfulfilling treaties with. 279, 1067

lease between Edwin Bolard and, rati-

fied ..

927

Seoul, Chosen,

appropriation for interpreter at consu-

late..

346, 1035

Sequoia National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429,-1251

Sequoia National Park, Cal., appropriation for protection, etc ...... 745, 1421

deficiency appropriation for....

222

Serenbetz, George B.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1318

Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, Senate,

appropriation for, assistant doorkeepers,

messengers, etc....

471, 1173

for employees for Senate Office Building; 1, 1174

under..

471,

for police force, Senate Office Build-

ing...

471, 1174

deficiency appropriation for clerk to; ad-

ditional pay.

802

Sergeant at Arms, House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for, deputy, etc...

475, 1178

for police force, House Office Building,

under...

476, 1178

Sergius Narrows, Alaska,

preliminary examination to be made of... 956

Sero, Norbert,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing.... 797

Serums, Tuberculins, etc. ,

appropriation for purchase, etc., of, for

treating animal diseases..

420, 1239

Servants, Personal or Domestic,

aliens employed as, not subject to contract

labor exclusion..

264

Servia , Bulgaria, and Roumania, appropriation for minister to..

337. 1027

for secretary of legation and consul gen-

eral....

338. 1028

Service Schools, Army,

appropriation for instruction expenses . 244, 1037 leaves of absence to instructors ....... 244

Sesame or Sesamum Seed,

on free list, oil...

77

Seventeenth Street NE., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing .

1347

appropriation for expenses.

1347

Seventh Judicial Circuit,

States included in...

1131

four circuit judges authorized for....

1131

Sevier, Captain Granville, lineal rank in Coast Artillery Corps cor-

rected .

202

INDEX.

ccxli

2 AH*X82H*X*~

Sevier National Forest, Utah,

Page. | Sheep,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 429, 1251 census inquiries of, slaughtered for food,

Sewers, D. C.,

and all hides produced....

appropriation for cleaning and repair-

duty on...

ing...

388, 979 regulations to be made for free entry of,

for pumping station.

388, 979

straying across frontier, etc....

Page. 228 35
72

for main and pipe...

388, 979 Sheep Dip,

for suburban; motor trucks.

388, 979 on free list.....

79

for rights of way..

388, 979 Sheepskins,

for Anacostia main interceptor..

388, 979 duty on dressed and finished ..............

68

for Rock Creek main interceptor.. 388, 979 Sheets,

for east side interceptor..

388, 979 duty on, copper..

30

deficiency appropriation for rights of

iron orsteel, cold rolled , etc..

25

way .

784

lead...

30

for cleaning and repairing.

784

nickel..

31

Sewing Machine Needles,

zinc...

32

duty on...

28

coated, etc.....

32

Sewing Machines,

on free list, platinum ..

78

duty on..

32 Sheets, Iron or Steel,

Sewing Silk,

duty on, common or black .

23

58 *

duty on..

57

with other metal imposed...

23

Seymour, Conn.,

polished, planished , or glanced..

23

appropriation for public building....... 1381

pickled, etc.

23

acquiring site for public building at, au-

cold rolled, not polished ..

23

thorized...

689

polished, etc...

25

Seymour, Ind.,

steel, not specially provided for........

23

appropriation for public building..

1381

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ........

685

Shaddocks,

Shelby, N. C.,

appropriation for public building..

1381.

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

691

duty on..... Shades,
duty on, wood, etc .....
Shafting, Mill, duty on steel..
Shale,
duty on.. Shallotte River, N. C., · preliminary examination of, to be made...
Shallowbag Bay, N. C.,

38 Shelbyville, Ky.,

appropriation for public building...... 1382

34 acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

689

23 Shelbyville, Tenn.,

construction of public building authorized

65

at......

...... 683

Shell,

674 duty on manufactures of, not specially

provided for......

70

appropriation for improvement of ........ 641 Shelley, George R.,

Shamokin, Pa.,

title of United States to certain lands in

appropriation for public building....................... 1381

Pettis County, Mo., released to.... 1079

2006

Shanghai, China,

Shells,

appropriation for expenses, United States

duty on engraved, cut, etc...

70

court for China, at....

343, 1033 on free list, pearl, not cut, etc ....

78

for prison expenses.... Shanks, Oscar,

... :.. 346, 1035 Shelton, Arthur B., deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

appropriation for paying proceeds of bond . 1392 Sheridan Railway and Light Company,

Shapes,

granted right of way on Fort Mackenzie

duty on, for hats or bonnets, fur ........

67

Military Reservation, Wyo.......... 1011

steel, pressed, sheared, or stamped................ 23 Sheridan, Wyo.,

Shapes, Iron,

appropriation for public building...... 707, 1382

duty on rolled or hammered, not specially

limit of cost increased, public building..

679

provided for....

22 terms of court at...

1130

Shasta National Forest, Cal.,

Sherley, Honorable Swagar,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 429, 1251 designated a member of commission to re-

Shavings, duty on steel..

arrange Hall of the House of Repre-

24

sentatives...

1444

Shaw, Hershel,

Sherman Institute, Riverside, Cal.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 127 appropriation for Indian school...

Shaw, Richard A..

Sherman, Tex.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1316 terms of court at..

273,1063 1126

Shawls, duty on woolen...........
Shears, duty on..
Sheathing,

Shield, M. C.,

54 deficiency appropriation for services...... 1318

Shields, Brigadier General James,

27 appropriation for monument over grave at

Carrollton, Mo...

723

duty on copper...

30 Shiloh National Cemetery, Tenn.,

Sheathing Felt, on free list, adhesive, for vessels....

deficiency appropriation for repairing cy-

75

clone damages....

210

Sheathing Paper, duty on..

.........

Sheboygan, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor...

Shiloh National Military Park, Tenn.,

61 appropriation for continuing establishment

of.......

724, 1401

purchase of additional land..

1401

657

erection of office building, etc........ 1401

88740°-VOL 36, PT 1-11- -109

ccxlii

INDEX.

281*8%2

Shiloh National Military Park, Tenn.-Con. Page.

deficiency appropriation for repairing cy-

clone damages.

210

for replacing buildings, etc., destroyed

by cyclone....

788

for repair to Iowa State mounment..

788

for additional land..

788

Shingle Bolts, Wood, on free list, not-specially provided for..... 81

Shingles.

duty on..

33

Ship Island Pass, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of channel,

etc.

646, 942

Ship, Steamboat, and Way Letters, appropriation for, Postal Service ....... 365, 1337

Ship Timber and Ship Planking, on free list, not specially provided for.... 81
Shipment Instrumentalities and Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce..

545

Shipments, Interstate,

disclosing information of, by carriers, etc.,

unlawful .

553

penalty for...

553

Shippers, attempting to obtain less than regular

rates by false billing, etc., by, a

misdemeanor...

549

by false claims for allowance, damages,

etc.....

550

punishment for..

550

by bribery; punishment..

550

Shipping,

maritime lien on foreign or domestic ves-

sels, for repairs, supplies, etc..... 604

ocean-going steam vessels to have wire-

less telegraph apparatus...

629

vessels entering otherwise than by sea

exempt from tonnage dues, if not

imposed at foreign port..

234

Shipping Commissioners, appropriation for office expenses.

765, 1229

permanent indefinite appropriation for,

repealed ; detailed estimates to be

submitted hereafter..

773

Shipping Service,

appropriation for salaries of commis-

sioners at specified ports......

1229

for clerk hire; contingent expenses... 1230

for appliances for admeasurement of

vessels....

1230

for motor boats, etc., for enforcing navi-

gation laws, etc ..

1230

for enforcing use of wireless communica-

tion on vessels.....

1230

Ships' Stores, Navy, profit allowed on sales of, to be used for amusement, etc., of enlisted force... 619

Shipwrecked American Seamen, appropriation for life-saving testimonials

for rescuing...

340, 1031

for relief and protection of, in foreign

countries, etc.

346, 1036

Shirting Cloth,

duty on, flax, hemp, ramie, etc ....

51

Shirts,

duty on, cotton, etc

48

Shoal Harbor, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of ................. 636, 936

Shoddy, Wool,

duty on..

53

Shoe Knives,

duty on...

27

Shoe Lacings,

duty on, cotton, etc.

48

Shoe Polishes,

Page.

duty on.. Shoemaker, H. R.,
deficiency appropriation for services...... Shoes,

duty on, horse, mule, or ox, wrought iron or steel..
leather....

made of hides entitled to free entry....... Shooks,

duty on, sugar-box and packing-box....... Shooks, American,

on free list, returned from abroad as barrels,

etc..

72

Shooks, Orange and Lemon,

duty on, of American manufacture, reimported in boxes filled with fruit.......... 33

Shooting Galleries and Ranges, Army,

appropriation for expenses..

258, 1053

exchange of lands, Fort Bliss, Tex.... 258

construction, etc., Sparta, Wis...

258

completion, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo. 258

Short Hauls in Interstate Commerce,

aggregate charges for, not to exceed that

for longer distances over same .................. *547

nor to equal..

J..

547

Shortage ofImported Fruit, etc.,

regulations for allowance for, from decay,

etc .....

102

Shoshone Agency, Nev ., Western,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

278, 1067

Shoshone Indian Reservation, Wyo.,

appropriation for Indian school..

288, 1076

for expenses, irrigation system... 288, 1076

deficiency appropriation for school..

1324

desert lands in former, open to selection

by Wyoming under Carey Act..... 288

use of proceeds from lands corrected..

860

Shoshone Indians, Wyo.,

appropriation for support, etc.....

288, 1076

for fulfilling treaty with..

288, 1076

deficiency appropriation for support, etc.,

of....

223, 1324

Shoshone National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251 Shot,
duty on, iron or steel, for abrasives . lead..

Shotgun Barrels,

onfree list, single tubes, forged,rough bored. Shotguns,
duty on, combination, and rifles.
double-barreled, breech-loading..

on double barrels for breech-loading, sporting...
on muzzle-loading..

parts and fittings for double-barreled,

sporting, breech-loading ..

single-barreled, breech-loading .

stocks for double-barreled, sporting.

28

Shreveport, La.,

appropriation for improvement of waterway

between Jefferson, Tex., and..

650

for public building.. for rent..

...... 707, 1382 707

may bridge Red River

961

terms of court at...

1114

Shrewsbury River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 637,936

Shrimps,

on free list.......

79

Shrubs,

duty on, nursery or greenhouse- stock..

37

on free list, for Department of Agriculture

or Botanic Garden....

78

** * ** ** ***

INDEX .

ccxliii

Siam,

Page. Silicates,

appropriation for minister to.......... 337, 1027

for secretary of legation and consul

general at Bangkok......

338, 1028

for interpreter to legation and consulate

duty on, of soda or other alkaline........ Silicic Acid,
on free list..
Silk,

general...

339, 1029 duty on, articles .

for expenses of American prisoners... 346, 1036.

bandings, including hatbands..

Sibley, Mo., bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 239

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

between Karlsas City and...

198

Side Arms,

beltings. bindings.. bone casings. braces... braids..

duty on.. Sidney, Ohio,

27

chenilles, not specially provided for.

chiffons...

appropriation for public building... 1382

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized.....

691

cloth of cotton, etc. , and.. cords.....
cords and tassels.

Siege Cannon, Army, appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

edgings... embroideries..

etc., of..... forammunition for....

597, 1341 597, 1341

floss.... flouncings..

for ammunition, etc., for practice.... 597, 1342

Sienna and Sienna Earths,

duty on, ground in oil or water..

15

not specially provided for.....

15

powdered, etc...

15

Sierra County, N. Mex.,

fringes.. galloons.. garters.. goods ornamented with spangles, etc.. ghoarnidnegrsk.e..rchiefs..

legislative act relating to, disapproved .. 878, 879

insertings..

Sierra National Forest, Cal., appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1251

knit goods.. laces...

Signal Corps, Army,

appropriation for pay of enlisted men;

longevity... for pay of officers; longevity.

246, 1040248, 1042

laces, etc., made on Lever or Gothrough machine........
manufactures of, not specially provided for......

Signal Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc.....

502, 1204

draftsmen, etc., to be paid from ap-

if composed in part of wool, to be assessed as manufacture ofwool...
mufflers.

propriations for fortifications, etc. 502, 1204

Signal School, Army,

appropriation for instruction expenses. 244, 1037

leaves of absence to instructors..

244

Signal Service (see also Signal Corps),

appropriation for expenses; war balloons,

etc....

245, 1038

limit for aerial machines..

1038

for Washington-Alaska telegraph sys-

tem.....

245, 1038

neck rufflings. S nets or nettings.
ornaments..
partially manufactured from cocoons or waste...
pile fabrics, not specially provided for plushes.... ready-made clothing. ribbons.....
velvet, or plush..

for operation of fire-control installations, Beacoast defenses, under...... 597, 1341

deficiency appropriation for........ 220, 1321

for wireless telephone

790, 1301

for Western Union Telegraph Company. 790

reimbursement of Canadian department of

public works for telegrams....

210

ruchings.. sewing.. spun, or schappe silk yarn
in the grey, in skeins, warps, and cops..
on bobbins, spools, or beams.. colored, bleached, or dyed, in skeins,

Siletz Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of..

283, 1071

Siletz Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

disposal of reserved lands.........

367

sale, etc., of town lots....

367

water-power sites to be reserved .

367

lands in Government farm .

367

or warps... on bobbins, cops, spools, or beams.. suspenders..... threads, not specially provided for. thrown ..
trimmings. tubings.. twist.

use of receipts......

367

patents in fee to purchasers..

368

appropriation for expenses; reimbursable.. 368

intoxicants prohibited for 25 years...... 368

veils or veilings..
velvets, not specially provided for. wearing apparel.. webs and webbings..

homestead entries on former, made prior

woven fabrics in the piece.

to December 31, 1906, may be passed

yarns, not specially provided for.

to patent....

1356 on free list, bolting cloths...

conditions; adverse proceedings forfraud,

Cocoons.

etc...

1356

raw, reeled, but not wound, etc.

additional payment required..

1356

waste..

right of way through, to Siletz Power and

Silk, Artificial,

Manufacturing Company....

582 duty on articles made of.....

SiletzPower and Manufacturing Company,

yarns, threads, or filaments..

granted right of way through Siletz Indian

Silk Stripes,

Reservation, Oreg...

582 duty on, of cotton, etc., and silk.......

 888888858488888888888888 7 8 88888 BAA88ASKE BX 88854884868866 £ 222 88 *

Page. 17 71
50 60
55 57 57 60 59 57 60 57 55 55 56
60 57 57 60 60 57 60
57 73 79 79 79
46

ccxliv

INDEX .

982229

Silks and Silk Goods,
Schedule L, Tariff of 1909 Silkworm Eggs,
on free list..
Sill Steps, Railway, cars to be equipped with.......
Silver,

Page. 55
79
298

Siskiyou National Forest, Oreg. and Cal.,

Page.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands of Sioux In-

dians, N. Dak., appropriation for payment of ceded lands. 279

payment per capita of balance from sale of

lande...

861

duty on jewelry articles of.. leaf .
manufactures of, not specially provided

67 Sistersville, W. Va. ,

30 construction of public building authorized

at.

683

for..
on free list, bullion.. coins.... medals received as prizes, etc.. ore ..
sweepings.. Silver Coin,

33 Sitesfor Public Buildings,

74 no money to be paid for, in excess of

74

specific appropriations...

699

77 Sitgreaves National Forest, Ariz.,

78 appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251 78 Siuslaw National Forest, Oreg. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

deficiency appropriation for transporting

fractional..

225, 777

for loss on recoinage of dollars..

777

deviation allowed in weight of single

pieces.....

1354

Silver, German,

duty on .

29

Sinclair-Scott Company,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

890

Sinepuxent Bay, Md., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Singers, Alien Professional, contract labor exclusion, not applicable to. 264

Sinking Fund Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries.....

376, 969

Sioux City, Iowa,

terms of court at .

1111

20

Siuslaw, Oreg.,

to contribute for improving mouth of Siuslaw River; reducing amount...... 663
Siuslaw River, Oreg.

appropriation for improvement of, at the

mouth; contracts...

663, 950

contribution locally..

663, 950

construction of south jetty by Siuslaw;

reduction of amount therefor..

-950

for improvement of, at the mouth ...... 1406

Six Nations Indians, N. Y.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with.. 279, 1067 Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution,

proposed; authorizing Congress to levy

taxes on incomes.

184

SixthJudicial Circuit, States included in.......

1131

three circuit judges authorized for...

1131

Sioux Falls, S. Dak.,

Size,

appropriation for public building.

1382 duty on glue............

14

for rent...

1382

gold..

15

limit of cost increased, public building......... 679 Skagit River, Wash.,

terms of court at .

1124 appropriation for improvement of........ 666

Sioux Indians, Different Tribes,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 676

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 283, 1072 Skeletons, etc.,

for agency employees....

283, 1072 on free list..

for subsistence .

283, 1072 Skelp Iron or Steel,

transportation; employment of In-

duty on .

dians..

283, 1072

sheared or rolled in grooves .

payment from tribal funds to Indians

Sketches, Original,

on Cheyenne River and Standing

on free list, in existence more than twenty

Rock Reservations ...

284, 1072

years ...

81

1 * * 88K 222

for support of schools .

284, 1072 Skewers,

for Yankton Sioux....

284, 1072 duty on wood, butcher's, etc........

34

deficiency appropriation for support, etc.. 223, Skilled Laborers, Alien,

811, 814, 1327 importation allowed, if similar class

for subsistence ..

1323

unobtainable....

264

Sioux Indians ofDevils Lake, N. Dak.,

Skins,

appropriation for support, etc., of .. 279, 1068 duty on, calf, etc., dressed and finished.... 68

Sioux Indians, Sisseton and Wahpeton Tribes,

tanned but unfinished, for morocco ..

68

payment per capita of balance from sale of

on free list, fish..

75

lands...

861

fur, not dressed, not specially provided

Sioux Indians, Yankton Tribe, S. Dak.,

for....

75

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with. 284, 1072

gold beaters'.

76

claim for lands in Minnesota referred to

raw; exceptions.......

79

Court of Claims.......

284 Skirt Bindings,

Sioux National Forest, S. Dak. and Mont.,

duty on, cotton pile fabrics.......

47

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1251 | Skirtings,

Sirups,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc., hemstitched or

duty on, cane juice

34

tucked ..

50

50

fruit, not specially provided for.. maple.. Sisal Grass,
duty on, cables and cordage .

41 Skowhegan, Me., 34 appropriation for public building...

1382

acquiring site for public building at, au-

49

thorized ....

690

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory

Skull Valley, Deep Creek, etc., Indians, Utah,

duty....

73 appropriation for maintenance, purchase of

not dressed or manufactured, not spe-

ially provided for..

76

seed, farm implements, and stock

for.....

1073

INDEX .

ccxly

Slabs,
duty on, iron .. steel..

Page. 22 23

Slades Creek, N. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674

Slate,

duty on..

21

manufactures of, not specially provided

for....

21

pencils.......

70

Slate Books, etc.,

duty on..

64

Slaughter Creek, Md., preliminary examination of, to be made... 671

Slave Trade, International Bureaufor Repress-

ing African, appropriationforannual contribution to . 342, 1032

Sledges,

duty on blacksmith's iron or steel.....

25

Sleeping Car Companies;

held to be common carriers.....

545

Sleeve Linings,

duty on silk-striped ...

46

Slidesfor Magic Lanterns,

duty on glass......

21

Sliver,

duty on, cotton...

42

ramie....

.49

Small Arms, Navy, appropriation for..

612, 1271

Smallpox,

appropriation for prevention, etc., among

Indians...

271, 1059

for prevention of epidemic...... 717, 1394

Smalts, duty on, not specially provided for................... 15

Smelting Warehouses, Bonded,

888

provisions for admitting imported ores in,

without paying duty..

89

Smells,

duty on..

37

Smith, A. J., et al., time extended to dam Choctawhatchee

River in Dale County, Ala....... 905

Smith, Benjamin, deficiency appropriation for.....
Smith, Edward A., and Harvey S. Green,

1 801

may dam Rock River, Lyndon, Ill..

920

Smith, Eustace D.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 127

Smith, John A.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses...

1317

Smith, Philip S.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

.1309

Smith, W. A., deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay..

127, 804, 1317

Smith, William G.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 208

Smiths Creek, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tions...

642

Smithsonian Institution, appropriation for international
changes... for American ethnology.

ex718; 1395 718, 1395

for International Catalogue of Scien-

tific Literature.

718, 1395

for Astrophysical Observatory..

718, 1396

for National Museum..

718, 1396

for clevators, Smithsonian building..

719

for National Zoological Park.... 719, 1396

for printing and binding for....

768, 1446

22 2224

Smithsonian Institution-Continued.

Page:

deficiency appropriation for National

Museum .

121, 782

for Tuberculosis Congress..

781

appointment of John B. Henderson, jr. , on

Board of Regents....

1458

reappointment of James B. Angell on

Board of Regents...

1453

of John B. Henderson and Alexander

Graham Bell on Board of Regents.. 874 Smokeless Powder, Navy,

appropriation for purchase and manufac-

ture of...

611, 1271

Smokers' Articles,

duty on..

70

Smoking Tobacco, Domestic,

packages, marking, etc. , required for.................. 108

internal-revenue tax on...

109

giving lottery orders, etc. , with, forbidden . 110

Smyrna, Del.,

appropriation for public building.

1382

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

684

Smyrna River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion...

638, 937

Snake River, Oreg., Wash., and Idaho,

appropriation for improvement of..

664, 951

bridge across, at Ontario, Oreg. , legalized . 191

bridge authorized across, at Ontario, Oreg. 179

Payette, Idaho...

1351

Snap Fasteners or Clasps,

duty on..

65

Snohomish River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts....

666, 952

Snoqualmie National Forest, Wash.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429. 1251 Snow and Ice, D. C.,

appropriation for removing, from streets, sidewalks, gutters, etc....... 389, 980

* 989 2 9 * 9AAR

Snuff and Snuff Flour,

duty on..

35

Snuff, Domestic,

packages required for; marking, etc............... 108

internal-revenue tax on...

109 .

giving lottery orders, etc., with, forbidden. 110

Snyder, G. F., deficiency appropriation for services ......
Soaps, duty on, castile.............. containing castor oil. fancy toilet....
medicinal, etc...
other, not specially provided for.. on free list, grease and oilsfor.... Social Insurance, International Congress at, invited to meet in United States.....

804
16 14 16 16 16 76
1034

*** A 999 99

Societies, Religious, Scientific, etc.,

on free list, books, etc., for; limit..

74

philosophical apparatus, etc., for...

78

Sod Oil,

duty on......

14

Soda,

duty on, arseniate of .

17

ash..

17

bicarbonate of, supercarbonate of, or

saleratus...

16

bichromate and chromate of..

16

borate of....

13

- caustic..

17

chlorate of..

16

crystal carbonate of, or concentrate soda

crystals..

16

hydrate of.

17

ccxlvi

INDEX .

Soda- Continued .
duty on, hyposulphite and sulphide of......... monohydrate of. nitrite of.....
sal, or soda crystals, not concentrated .. Besquicarbonate of.. silicate of.. sulphate of, or salt cake, or niter cake .. tartrate of...
yellow prussiate of. on free list, nitrate of.. Soda Water, duty on.

Page. 17 16 17 17 16 17 17 12 17 79
41

Sodium,

duty on, and alloys ..

29

Soils Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries...

432, 1255

for general expenses ..

432, 1256

source of natural fertilizers.

1256

Soldiers' Home, Volunteer (see National Home

for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers) .

Sole Leather,

duty on.

68

Soleau, William L.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts..

1313

Solicitor, Department ofAgriculture, appropriation for law clerks.

416, 1235

all law work of Department to be under

direction of.....

416

details of law clerks out of Washington. 416, 1236

Solicitorfor the Department ofState,

appropriation for...

522, 1224

for assistants..

...... 483, 484, 1186

Solicitor-General,

appropriation for.....

522, 1224

Solicitor, Navy Department, appropriation for, clerks, etc. pay increased..

506, 1208 506

Solicitor of Customs, provisions for, and assistants, repealed.... 118

Solicitor ofInternal Revenue, appropriation for......

522, 1224

Solicitor of the Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc.. 524, 1226

Solicitor of the Treasury,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 524, 1225

for editing, etc., digest of opinions and

briefs of.....

749

district attorneys to report suits in which United States is a party, required by, and approved by Attorney-General. 294

Somerset Hospital, Cape Town, Africa,

appropriation for contribution to...... 346, 1036
Somerset, Ky., appropriation for public building............... 1382

Sopris National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1251

Sorghum,

on free list, cane for seed..

79

Sounds, Fish,

duty on..

14

Sour Orange Juice,

on free list..

76

South America,

tonnage duty on vessels from ports on

Carribbean coast of...

111

South Bethlehem, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.

1382

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized...

692

South Boston, Va.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized ..

692

South Bristol Harbor, Me.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

South Carolina,

appropriation for establishing fish cul-

tural station in..........

1441

assigned to fourth judicial circuit..

1131

South Carolina Eastern Judicial District,
judge for, to serve in western district.. counties composing. terms of court..

1087 1123 1123

South Carolina Western Judicial District,
judge for eastern district to serve in.. counties composing.. terms of court.

1087 1123 1123

South Chicago, Ill., constructionofpublic building authorized at 681
South Dakota,

appropriation for purchasing school sections. for, on Cheyenne River and

Standing Rock Indian Reservations,

increased .

196

forschool sections for, Pine Ridge Indian

Reservation ..

443

for school sections for, Rosebud Indian

Reservation ...

451

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc.... 518, 1220

for completing field notes of surveys in.. 1417

assigned to eighth judicial circuit.

1131

homesteaders time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended . leave of absence allowed ....

189, 903 189, 904

jurisdiction of district court of, over crimes

committed in Indian reservations in

the State ...

1094

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, unallotted

lands to be sold, etc.....

440

lieu land selections for school sections in,

extended ..

1072

Rosebud Indian Reservation, unallotted

lands to be sold, etc....

448

lieu land selections for school sections in,

extended ...

1073

sale of lands on Cheyenne River Indian

Reservation for townsite......

602

time extended for bridge across Missouri

River in.....

179

South Dakota Judicial District,

counties composing southern division.......... northern division. central division. western division..............................

1124 1124 1124 1124

terms of court..

1124

South Fork Edisto River, S. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 675

South Haven, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

conditions .

655

contracts authorized for improvement of

harbor...

947

South, McAlester, Okla.,

terms of court at.

1122

South Pass Channel, Mississippi River,

appropriation for maintenance.

647

South and Western Railroad Company,

time extended for constructing bridges,

Clinch and Holston Rivers, Va. and

Tenn ..

330

South River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.

642

preliminary examination to be made of.... 954

South River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 636, 936
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 673 Southeast Missouri Telephone Company,

may lay cable across Mississippi River,

Cairo, Ill., to Bird Point, Mo....

336

INDEX.

ccxlvii

Southern Development Company,

Pago.

may bridge Arkansas River, Pine Bluff,

Ark..

601

Southern Pacific Company,

Special Delivery, Postal Service,

Page.

appropriation for car fare in emergency

cases...

361, 1333

for fees to messengers..

361, 1333

2 2 £ E 88AFER PRRRR 2 E ** 5 * 8

deficiency appropriation for damages to

"Encinal"

779

Southmayd, Orville H., deficiency appropriation for.......................................... 124

Southport, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor ..

633

Southwest Pass, Mississippi River, .

appropriation for continuing improvement

and maintenance..

647,942

Soya-Bean,

on free list, oil..

77

Spain, appropriation for minister to................... for secretary of legation......

337, 1027 337, 1028

Spain, War with,

8222

appropriation for arrears of pay, etc.... 737, 1413

Spangles,

duty on.

64

articles of.. -- 

64

fabrics of..

64

silkgoods ornamented with.

60

woolen goods ornamented with.

55

Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

deficiency appropriation for paying awards

of...

129, 218, 807

deficiency appropriation for fees to mes-

sengers.

225,802, 1325

Specimens of Natural History, etc.,

on free list, for public collections, not for

sale..

79

Spectacles,

duty on glass, and frames..

20

on free list, glass plates or disks, rough cut,

for...

76

Spermaceti,

on free list, of American fisheries...........

77

Spices,

duty on....

39

not specially provided for..

89

drugs, not edible..

13

on free list, cassia, etc., unground.

79

cinnamon, unground.

79

cloves and clove stems, unground .

79

crude, not edible, drugs, not specially

provided for...

75

ginger root, unground, not preserved....... 79

mace, unground...

79

nutmegs, unground.

79

pepper, black or white, unground...

79

Spiegeleisen,

duty on..

21

Spanish War Veterans, United,

Spike Lavender Oil,

donation of bronze cannon captured dur-

on free list..

77

ing War with Spain to, .for official

Spikes,

badges....

1457 duty on, cut iron or steel.....

28

Sparks, Joseph B.,

wrought-iron or steel.....

28

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1318 Spinach Seed, ·

Spars,

duty on.

37

duty on round timber for..........

33 Spindle Banding,

Sparta, Wis.,

duty on, cotton, etc........

48

appropriation for constructing target range

Spirits,

for Army at..

258 on free list, turpentine....................

80

for public building..

1382 Spirits, Distilled,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

surveys of capacity of mash; filtration-aer-

ing at, authorized.

688

ation process added..

590

right of way granted through military rifle

period for filling tubs, filtration-aeration

range, etc., at..

298

process added..

590

Speaker ofthe House ofRepresentatives,

Spirituous Liquors,

appropriation for secretary to..

473, 1176 duty on; determination of proof.....

39

for clerk to Speaker's table. .... 473, 1176

imitations of....

40.

preparing Digest of Rules..

473, 1176 Splice-bars, Railway,

for clerk and messenger...

473, 1176 duty on, iron and steel..

23

deficiency appropriation for automobile

Spokane and British Columbia Railway.Com-

for....

128 .

pany,.

duties of, extending Capitol grounds to Union Station....
to appoint three Members on commission to Mexican Centennial celebration ...
two Members on commission to investi-

may bridge Columbia River, Hell Gate,

738

Wash.....

415

Spokane Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with. 286,1074

882 Spokane, Wash.,

terms of court at..

1128

gate employer's liability and work-

Sponge,

man's compensation...

884 on free list, platinum.........

78

to continue on commission to control House

Sponges,

Office Building, etc.......

1306 duty on..

17

Special Agents, Census,

· made of rubber...

70

authorized, appointment; duties....

7

manufactures of.

17

compensation, etc....

7 Spool Thread, Cotton,

pay, etc., allowed...

126 duty on....

42

basis of pay modified.....

874 Sprigs,

Special Agents, Customs Service,

duty on cut...

28

pay, etc., established...

1393 Springfield Arsenal, Mass.,

Special and Select Committees, House of Rep-

appropriation for dry house, etc..

1398

resentatives,

for repairing streets....

1398

appropriation for..

478, 1180

deficiency appropriation for...... 881, 891, 1317

Special Assessment Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...

379,971

Springfield, Ill., terms of court at...............
Springfield, Mass., terms of court at...

... 1110 1114

ccxlviii

INDEX .

3333 19

Springfield, Mo., appropriation for public building.. enlargement of public building at, authorized .....
acceptance of Confederate cemetery near.. transfer to care, etc., of National cemetery ....
terms of court at..

Page. 1382
679 1077
1078 1117

Springfield Rifles, Army, appropriation for purchase of, for Marine

Corps...

626, 1286

Springfield, Tenn. , ·

construction of public building at, author-

ized ..

683

Spunk,

on free list

79

Spurs and Stilts,

on free list, for manufacture of earthenware,

etc.

79

Square 300, D. C.,

railroad switch authorized into square 328

from ....

238

Square 828, D. C.,

railroad switch authorized from square 300

into..

238

underground conduit to Potomac River

from, authorized .....

238

Square 534, D. C., appropriation for condemnation of land

for interior park in.......................

981

Square 678, D. C.,

portion for widening First Street east trans-

ferred to commissioners .....

383

Stackhouse, George M.,

deficiency appropriation for....................

792

Staff College, Army,

appropriation for instruction expenses. 244, 1037 leaves of absence to instructors........ 244

Stains,

duty on, not specially provided for................

15

Stamford, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.... 633

for public building..

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

684

Stamford, Tex.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

692

Stamp Taxes, Internal-Revenue,

time extended for presenting claims for,

illegally collected on foreign bills of

exchange...

779

Stamped Envelopes,

appropriation for freight or expressage

on.....

362, 1335

for manufacture.

364, 1337

use prohibited for printing address,

etc., on...

364

existingcontracts notaffected .. ..... 365

for distribution..

365, 1337

deficiency appropriation for manufacture.. 802

Stamps Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, etc .. 520, 1222 |

Stamps, Foreign Postage or Revenue,

on free list..

79

Stamps, Internal-Revenue,

to be provided for new ratings of tax on

cigars and cigarettes......

110

Stamps, Postage,

appropriation for manufacture, etc...... 364, 1337

Standards Bureau, Department of Commerce

and Labor,

appropriation for Director, assistants, etc. 527, 1230

officer to be designated as acting Di-

rector ......

1231

Standards Bureau, Department of Commerce Page. and Labor-Continued.

appropriation for apparatus, machinery,

etc.

528, 1231

for contingent expenses..

528, 1231

member, International Committee on

Weights and Measures....

528, 1231

delegates, International Committee on

Electrical Units..

528, 1232

for care ofgrounds, etc........

528, 1232

for investigating destructive effects of

electrical currents on buildings,

etc....

528, 1232

for investigating structural materials. 765, 1232

for testing machine, Pittsburg..

1232

for expenses, determination of physical

constants ..

1232

for construction of laboratory.

1232

deficiency appropriation for machine for

testing physical constants...

216

for freight truck...

216

for equipment.....

224

for information of weights and measures

used in trade....

801

for fuel....

1313

troy pound to be standard of the Mint of

the United States....

1354

weights corresponding to standard troy

pound of, required at mints and assay

offices ..

1354

Standing Rock Indian Reservation, N. Dak. and S. Dak.,

appropriation for benefit of Indians on,

from tribal funds.....

284, 1072

time extended for paying installments for

lands on opened portion of...

266

forfeiture on failure....

266

commutation allowed..

266

fees, etc., required; issue of patents..

266

disposal of unsold lands...

266

settlement of claims of licensed traders

against Indians of...

1068

Stanislaus National Forest, Cal.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Star Bluff, S. C.,

bridge authorized across Waccamaw River

at....

179

time extended for bridging Waccamaw

River at..

906

Star Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by... 361

discontinuance when duplicated by

rural delivery...

361, 1339

emergency service in Alaska..

361

for, in Alaska..

1333

emergency service..

1333

for inland transportation by, except in

Alaska....

1339

discontinuance when served by rural

delivery..

1339

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by..

224,812, 1325

Starch, duty on.. burnt...

chemically treated .. soluble...

Starek, Charles,

deficiency appropriation for...

121

State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Colo.,

sale of public lands to State for...

847

State Courts,

concurrent jurisdiction with circuit courts in actions for injuries to railway em-

ployees......

2911

INDEX.

ccxlix

State Courts- Continued .

Page. States-Continued .

Page

removal of causes to Federal courts from,

provisions in Judiciary Code relating

to..

1094

cooperation with, for preservation of navi-

gable waters...

961

credit directed in disallowed accounts of,

precedence in Supreme Court of writs of

error in criminal cases from.....

1160

writs of error allowed from decision of,

for expenses of militia participating

in Army maneuvers, etc.......

123

credit to Treasurer of amount of public

against validity of treaty or statute,

moneys deposited with...

776

etc..

1156 details of Army officers as instructors, etc.,

in favor of validity of State laws, etc., as not repugnant to Constitution, etc... 1156

of Organized Militia at request of

governors of......

1045

against right, etc., claimed under Con-

stitution, etc..

1156

State Department (see Department of State).

State Homesfor Disabled Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for aid to....

736, 1413

deduction for amounts collected from

inmates......

736, 1413

jurisdiction of United States courts, exclu-

sive of State, in controversies of a

civil nature in which, are parties... 1161

except between a State and its citizens. 1161

on freelist, works of art, etc., for permanent

exhibition by....

81

for presentation to..

81

deficiency appropriation for aid to .... 211, 1301 Organized Militia of, to participate in Army

State Libraries,

maneuvers, etc. , expenses, etc... 329

on free list, books, etc. , for; limit.......

74 States, Admission of New (see Arizona and

philosophical apparatus, etc., for ...................... 78

New Mexico).

State Railroad Commissions, etc.,

Statesboro, Ga.,

complaints against carriers by, to be in-

appropriation for public building....

1382

vestigated by Interstate Commerce

acquiring eite for public building at, au-

Commission....

551

thorized ..

689

State Statutes,

Statesville, N. C.,

restriction on issue of injunction by United

terms of court at..

1120

States court based on alleged un-

Stationery, Postal Service,

constitutionality of...........

557, 1162 appropriation for....

365, 1338

hearings before three judges.

557, 1162

one to be Supreme Court justice or

circuit judge..

557, 1162

notice to State officials....

..557, 1162

Stationery, Treasury Department,

for the bureaus and offices combined in one

appropriation...

1194

for Internal Revenue Service to be under

temporary restraining order; precedence

to hearings.....

557, 1162

direct appeals to Supreme Court..... 557, 1162 State Surveys,

appropriation for furnishing points to.. 756, 1433

direction of Secretary..

1195

Statistics Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries...

436, 1260

for general expenses... for administrative expenses.

436, 1260 436, 1260

State, War, and Navy Department Building,

D. C.,

appropriation for clerks, engineers, watch-

men, etc....

505, 1207

for field and State agents' expenses.. 436, 1260

for investigating cost of production of

farm products..

436

deficiency appropriation for....

1324

forfuel, lights, repairs, etc.... forrewiring electric circuits, etc.

505, 1207 Statistics Bureau, Department ofCommerce and

505

Labor,

forserviceand repairs, Mills Building. 505, 1207 appropriation for chief of, clerks, etc... 526, 1228

for laborer, State Department annex. 505, 1207

for experts, etc.....

526, 1228

for ice plant...

737 Statuary,

deficiency appropriation for contingent

on free list, not for sale, for models or edu-

expenses...

788

cational purposes..

79

Statement of Appropriations,

appropriation for preparing.

766, 1443

for 1st sess., 61st Cong., to be included in

2d sess.

127

Staten Island Lighthouse Depot, N. Y.,

appropriation for completing power plant... 1430

for repairs, etc., of wharves..

1431

construction authorized of power plant.... 1080

Statues (see also Monuments),

appropriation for replica of Von Steuben, to

be presented to German Emperor... 886

for unveiling, etc., John Paul Jones... 1404

duty on, china, etc., decorated, etc ....

18

china, etc., not decorated, etc...

18

General von Steuben, replica authorized for presentation to Germany....... 605

Staten Island Sound, N. Y. and N. J.;

Statues, etc., D. C.,

appropriation for improvement of channel

"Kill von Kull to Raritan Bay; con-

tracts.......

636

location, etc., of, in streets, parks, etc., to

be submitted to Commission ofFine

Arts.....

371

States,

Statuettes,

appropriation for agricultural experiment

stations in...

437, 1261

deficiency appropriation for refund to,

raising volunteers...

809

allotment for militia, available for expenses

ofjoint maneuvers in 1908..

329

arid lands, temporary withdrawals from en-

try, pending applications by, under

Carey Act..

237

certified copies of population and agricul-

tural census returns may be fur-

nished to.....

10

duty on, china, etc., decorated, etc ....

18

china, etc., not decorated, etc....

18

Statutes at Large,

appropriation for editing, etc.................. 483, 1186 Statutes at Large, Index to,

appropriation for continuing preparation

of......

481

scope, etc., subject to approval ofJudiciary Committees of both Houses of Con-

gress........

481

Stave Bolts,

duty on rough hewn, etc...

33

ccl

INDEX .

Staves, duty on wood .

Page. 33

Staves, American,

on free list, returned from abroad as barrels,

etc......

72

Stays,

duty on iron or steel, welded, seamed, or

jointed.....

26

Steam Engineers, D. C., Board of Examiners,

appropriation for salaries....

379,972

Steam Engines,

duty on.....

32

Steam Machinery, Navy,

appropriation for completion, repairs,

etc.

621, 1281

Steam Vessels,

wireless-telegraph apparatus required on

ocean-going...

629

Steamboat-Inspection Service,

appropriation for Supervising Inspector

General, clerks, etc...

526, 1228

for salaries of supervising inspectors, in-

spectors, and assistants...

1228

temporary designation of supervising

inspectors...

1229

for service at large, clerk hire, etc.

1229

certificate after inspection is made and ves-

sel completed....

831

issue of temporary, for use until official .

copy is received ...

831

effect of revocation.

832

navigating without unexpired, forbidden 832

completing voyage permitted, if expiration at sea or in foreign port..... 832

sailing not permitted under, expiring

within 15 days...

832

permanent indefinite appropriations for expenses of, repealed; detailed estí-
mates to be submitted hereafter.... 773

Steamboat Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportationby. 361, 1333

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor- tation by... 224

Steamboat Springs, Colo., granted lands for public park....................................... 460

Steaming Exercises, Navy,

appropriation for prizes, etc., for economy

in coal consumption and general ef-

ficiency...

608, 1268

Stearin, Oleo,

on free list..

78

Steel (see also Iron and Steel),

duty on, bars.

23

billets...

23

blooms..

23

castings. circular-saw plates..

cogged ingots.....

die blocks or blanks.

gun-barrel molds...

23

hammer molds.......

23

ingots.....

23

mill shafting..

not specially provided for..

23

plates, not specially provided for..

23

shapes, pressed, sheared, or stamped..

23

shavings....

sheets, not specially provided for.

slabs..

23

strips..

24

substitutes for tool..

swaged..

23

wool...

productions of iron classified as.

25

********

Steel Ship Plates, Armor, etc., Navy,

Page.

no purchase to be made from trade monopo-

lies of...

1289

at a price in excess of reasonable profit.. 1289 Steele Bayou, Miss.,.

appropriation for improvement of....... 647,942 Steele, John L.,
deficiency appropriation for services ...... 803

Steele, N. C.,

conveyance of strip of land, Chickamauga

Park, to.....

1401

222

Steels,

duty on, corset, or dress..

24

with handles.....

27

without handlès..

27

Steelton, Pa.,

appropriation for public building......................... 1382

Steins,

0000 60 18

duty on, china, etc., decorated, etc....

18

china, etc., not decorated, etc...

18

Stems,

duty on, artificial, millinery ornaments... 66

drugs..

13

on free list, crude, drugs not specially pro-

vided for...

75

tobacco...

80

Stenographers to Committees, House of Repre-

sentatives,

appropriation for...

477, 1180

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices.....

128, 805, 1317

Stenographers to Senators, appropriation for..
deficiency appropriation for....... Stereotype Paper,
duty on...

472, 1174 1315
61

Stereotype Plates,

duty on..

28

Steubenville, Ohio,

appropriation for public building....

1382

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized..

687

Stevenson, H. L.,

deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

Stewart, A. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services..... 127

Stewart, General Daniel,

monument to be erected at Midway, Ga.,

in memory of General James Screven

and.

*1352

appropriation for construction, etc...... 1352 Stewart, J. C.,
deficiency appropriation for services.. 806, 1319 Stibnite,
duty on antimony in................. Sticks,

duty on, for umbrellas, etc.

walking...

wood, rough-hewn, etc...

33

on free list, in the rough, cut for um-

brellas, canes, etc..

Stilaguamish River, Wash.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 676

Still Wines,

duty on...

40

Stipulations, etc., Surety,

authority of Secretary of the Treasury

respecting, of security, etc., com-

panies.....

241

Stockings,

duty on cotton......

47

not specially provided for......

47

Stocks,

duty on, for double-barreled sporting breech-loading shotguns and rifles.. 28

R

************

88

INDEX .

ccli

Stocks, Cuttings or Seedlings,

Page.

duty on, apple......

37

briar rose..................... .

37

fruit trees...

37

Mahaleb or Mazzard cherry.

37

Manetti multiflora rose.....

37

Myrobolan plum........

37

nursery or greenhouse stock..

37

ornamental trees..

37

pear......

37

quince.....

37

rose plants....

37

Saint Julien plum...

37

Stocks, Railroad Corporation,

commission authorized to investigate issue

of.....

556

deficiency appropriation for.............................. 774, 1291

Stockton Canal, Cal.,

bridge authorized across, in San Joaquin

County, Cal......

601

Stockton Channel, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 663, 950

Stockton Harbor, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of...

631

Stockton Terminal and . Eastern Railroad

Company,

may bridge Stockton Canal, San Joaquin

County, Cal....

601

Stoddard and Butler Counties, Mo.,

may bridge Saint Francis River, Fisk.... 352

Stone,

duty on, monumental or building, not

specially provided for......

21

on free list, burrstone, rough or unmanu-

factured...

79

cliff, unmanufactured..

79

rotten, crude, etc.......

79

Stone, etc.,

appropriation for investigating structural

materials of.....

765, 1232

Stones,

2 882

duty on articles of semiprecious, not

specially provided for....

21

precious and semiprecious, cut but not

set......

68

synthetic, precious...

68

on free list, flint, unground....

75

lithographic, not engraved...

77

precious, rough, uncut, etc.............

75

Stoneware,

duty on, common, not decorated .

18

decorated, etc......

18

000

not decorated, etc., not specially pro-

vided for....

18

Stonington River, Conn.,

appropriation for light station, repairs to

sea wall......

1430

Storax, or Styrax,

on free list...

79

Storekeepers, and Storekeeper-Gaugers, Internal Revenue,

appropriation for salaries, etc........ 494, 1196
deficiency appropriation for fees, etc..... 1291 allowed cumulative leaves of absence..... 592

pay increased of certain.....

928

Stout,

duty on.......

41

Stove Plates,

duty on cast-iron.....

26

Straight, Harry B., deficiency appropriation for services....... 1316

Straw,

duty on.....

37

blinds, shades, etc..

34

braids, laces, etc.....

64

338

222

Straw Continued.

Page.

duty on, flax...

48

hats, bonnets, and hoods...

64

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

69

meaning of term..

65, 69

Straw Mattings, duty on, not otherwise provided for....... 49

Street Railways, D. C.,

Baltimore and Washington Transit Com-

pany,time extended for completion. 894

City and Suburban Railway to extend

underground system on North Cap-

itol Street....

231

to remove tracks from Michigan Avenue

NE.....

371

to extend tracks from Monroe Street,

etc., to District line....

371

time extended for constructing Washing-

ton, Spa Springs and Gretta Rail-

road...

229

Street Sweeping Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries....

379, 971

for expenses, sprinkling, sweeping, etc. 388, 980

for stable and storerooms for....

980

Streets, Avenues, etc., D. C.,

appropriation for assessment and permit

work...

384,975

for work on; schedules, etc......

384, 975

for replacing granite blocks with as-

phalt.....

384, 976

for grading, etc., Seventeenth Street

NW., from B to E Streets..

976

for condemnation, etc., land to connect Belmont and Fifteenth Streets NW . 976

for grading...

385, 976

· for condemnation, etc ......

385, 976

for constructing county roads....

385, 976

for repairs.......

386, 977

use of heater method..

386

widening roadways of certain streets.. 386

relocation of tracks, Anacostia and

Potomac Railroad..

977

for replacing sidewalks and curbs..... 387, 978

for repairs, county roads....

387, 978

for sweeping, cleaning, etc ..

388,980

horse-propelled street washing machine

to be purchased .

389

commissioners authorized to have

work done under their own direction. 980

for removing snow and ice............ 389, 980

Strings,

duty on, for musical instruments.....

70

metal, for musical instruments..............

70

Strips,

duty on, glass..
iron or steel, cold rolled, etc.... on nickel..

Strom, Otto C., deficiency appropriation for services...... 1316
Strontia, on free list, mineral carbonate of.... oxide of.......

Strontian,

on free list, protoxide of......... Strontianite,
on free list...

Structural Materials,

appropriation for investigation of, belong-

ing to United States, etc ..

765, 1232

investigations of, transferred to Bureau of

Mines.....

370

transfer of work to Bureau of Mines re-

pealed .....

743

2882328

cclii

INDEX .

******22×*$

Structural Shapes,

Page.

duty on iron or steel...

22

Strychnia, or Strychnine,

duty on, and all salts thereof.........

17

Stuart, Wesley A.,

deficiency appropriation for legal services . 1300

Sturgis, Mich.,

may dam Saint Joseph River........

893

Studs,

duty on bone, ivory, etc.

65

for nonskidding automobile tires....... 28

lathed, machined, etc..

28

Stylographic Pens,

duty on..

31

Submarine Cables,

authorized across Mississippi River, Cairo,

Ill., to Bird Point, Mo

336

Submarine Mines, Army,

appropriation for purchase, etc......... 597, 1342

for operating, etc...

597

for expenses of torpedo depot...... 598, 1342 for casemates, etc., for operating........... 1341 Submarine Tender, Navy,
construction of one authorized ; cost.... 1287

appropriation for....

1287

Submarine Torpedo Boats,

construction of four authorized; appro-

priation...

628

appropriation for, heretofore authorized . 628, 1285

construction of four authorized ; cost.... 1287

appropriation for..

1287

eight-hour workday restriction on ex-

penditure.....

1287

Subsistence Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of post commissary

sergeants; longevity...

246, 1039

for pay of officers, longevity . for supplies, etc for transport service..

248, 1041 251, 1045 251, 1045

for meals, toilet articles, etc.. for ice, utensils, etc....

251, 1045 251, 1045

for food, etc., rifle matches..

251, 1046

forpayments; commutation ofrations . 251, 1046

for special-diet rations....

252, 1046

for civilian employees, extra-duty pay,

printing, etc..

252, 1046

prizes for cooks, bakers, etc.

252, 1046

for preservation, etc., of supplies .... 252, 1046

payment for supplies furnished other

bureaus, etc...

1047

prices to other War Department

bureaus at cost...

1047

additional ten per cent on other sales.. 1047 deficiency appropriation for subsistence.. 210,

220, 819, 1300, 1321, 1326

issue to military convicts limited..

210

for relief of sufferers from storm, Louisi-

ana ....

790

Subsistence Supplies,

sales to other bureaus, departments, and

employees authorized .

1047

payments, deposits of receipts .....

1047

at cost to War Department bureaus

1047

ten per cent added to other departments,

etc .....

1047

Substances,

on free list, used only for manure.....

76

Substances, Earthy or Mineral,

duty on articles of, not specially provided

for..

18

Suffolk, Va.,

appropriation for public building.

1382

limit of cost increased, public building.... 679

Sugar,

duty on..

34

candy.....

34

Sugar- Continued. duty on, cane.
drainings. grape or glucose .. maple... refined, tinctured, etc.
sweepings... special provisions for, imported from Phil-
ippine Islands.... Sugar Beet Seed,
on free list..

Page. 34 34 34

Sugar Beets, duty on..
Sugar-Box Shooks, duty on..
Sugar Cane, on free list, for seed......

Sugar Manufacture,

deficiency appropriation for experiments

in....

1324

g ° © Feeee gg e 82

Sugar, Molasses, and Manufactures of,

Schedule E, Tariff of 1909 ..

34

Sugar of Milk,

duty on....

36

Sugar Producing Plants,

appropriation for improvement of, etc.... 422, 12 Suisun Channel, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion....

663

Sulphate ofCopper,

duty on..

12

Sulpho-Ricinoleic Acid,

duty on...

14

Sulphur,

duty on refined, or flowers of. !.

17

on free list, crude, in bulk......

79

lac, or precipitated...

79

not otherwise provided for..

79

ore..

79

Sulphur River, Tex. and Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

650

preliminary examination of, to be made... 669

Sulphuret ofIron,

on free list, in natural state.....

79

Sulphuric Acid,

on free list, for agricultutal purposes; retal-

iatory duty..

80

not specially provided for......

12

Sumac,

duty on.· extracts of...........

14

grour

17

Sunbury,  u.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

683

Sundance National Forest, Wyo. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251 Sundries,

Schedule N, Tariff of 1909 .

64

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations,

under the President, administration of

tariff laws, etc....

703, 1363

report on wool and woolen schedule. 1363

inquiry into business methods of depart-

ments, etc...

703, 1363

under Department of State, Canadian

Fisheries Commission..

1364

under Treasury Department, for public

buildings.. marine hospitals...

703, 1364 710

quarantine stations...

710

Life-Saving Service...

710, 1387

Revenue-Cutter Service....

711, 1388

Engraving and Printing Bureau...... 712, 1389

miscellaneous, internal revenue, etc. 713, 1390

United States securities..

... 714, 1390

public buildings...

714, 1391

INDEX.

ccliii

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations-Con. Page. | Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations-Con. Page.

under Treasury Department, miscellane-

ous, internal revenue, etc., suppress-

ing counterfeiting, etc ..

715, 1392

collecting customs revenue.

716, 1393

Public Health and Marine-Hospital

Service.......

716, 1393

quarantine service...

717, 1394

prevention of epidemics... under District of Columbia..

717, 1394 717, 1395

under Department of State, for North At-

lantic fisheries arbitration ...

765

boundary waters commission, Canadian. 766

under legislative branch, for statement of

appropriations .....

..... 766, 1443

Navy Yearbook, etc ...... Botanic Garden.... House Office Building..

766 766, 1443 766, 1443

Senate Office Building..

1443

under Smithsonian Institution, for Na-

tional Museum, etc ...

718, 1395

refrigerating apparatus, Capitol and

office buildings...

1443

under Interstate Commerce Commission,

for salaries, etc......

.... 719, 1396

transportation in subways to office

buildings.

1443

under War Department, for armories and

arsenals....

720, 1397

military posts, etc.... national cemeteries, etc ..

721, 1398 722, 1399

national parks.......

724, 1401

Valley Forge memorial.

1402

railroad siding to power plant..

1443

reconstructing Hall of House of Repre-

sentatives...

1444

Printing Investigation Commission... 1444

paper inspector for Printing Committee.. 1444

Alaskan investigation....

1444

Guilford Court House memorial..

1402

buildings and grounds, Washington.. 725, 1402 rivers and harbors, contract work.. 728, 1405

maps, surveys, etc....

730, 1406

New York Harbor..

730, 1407

for Government Printing Office, salaries....
public printing and binding.. superintendent of documents.. for Isthmian Canal...

for 766, 1444 767, 1445 770, 1448
771, 1449

International Waterways Commission 730, 1407

wreck of battleship "Maine ".

1407

artificial limbs, etc....

731, 1407

Volunteer Soldiers' Home..

732, 1408

no bond required of Panama Railroad for

contracts, etc....

1452

statement of sales of public property, etc.,

to be separated from annual esti

State and Territorial homes....

736, 1413

mates....

773

back pay, bounty, and commutation of

rations...

736, 1413

arrears ofpay, War with Spain, etc... 737, 1413

repeal of permanent indefinite appropria-

tions for shipping commissioners,

etc.; estimates...

773

State, War, and Navy Department

building.....

737

for Steamboat-Inspection Service; esti-

mates..

773

under Interior Department, for build-

ings ..

737, 1413

Capitol and grounds.............

737, 1413

public lands...

739, 1414

Bureau of Mines...

742, 1418

custody of public property at Executive

Mansion; inventory, etc....

773

all sums for salaries to be in full for serv-

ices ....

774, 1453

Sunken Vessels,

Geological Survey..

743, 1417 abandoned merchandise from, in American

Indian Department...

744

waters maybebrought infree ofduty. 88

miscellaneous, disbarment proceed-

Sunn,

ings....

744, 1419 duty on, cables and cordage...

49

Supreme Court Reports.

744, 1419 on free list, binding twine; retaliatory duty 73

Alaska, education, etc..

744, 1420

not dressed or manufactured, not spe-

national parks..

745, 1420

cially provided for.................

76

Government Hospital for Insane.. 745, 1421 Sunshades,

Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institution;

duty on..

71

name changed....

746, 1422

sticks for...

71

Howard University.

746, 1422 on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for.......... 81

Freedmen's Hospital.

746, 1423 Superintendent Capitol Building and Grounds

under Department of Justice, for public

buildings..

747, 1423

miscellaneous, conduct of customs

cases...

747, 1424

(see Capitol Building and Grounds, Superintendent of).
Superintendent of Prisons, Department of Justice,

defense in claims, prosecution of

duties on boards of parole at penitentiaries. 819

crimes, etc....

747, 1424

enforcing antitrust laws, etc .... 748, 1425
Opinions of Attorney General, etc.... 749 Opinions, etc., Solicitor of the Treasury 749

under judicial branch, for United States

courts..

749, 1425

penitentiaries..

751, 1427

National Training School for Boys,

D. C......

753, 1429

under Department ofAgriculture, forpaper-

Superintendent ofWeights and Measures, D. C.,

appropriation for, assistants, etc..

377,970

for extra services...

377

for purchase of groceries, etc, for investi-

gation.....

970

Superintendents ofIrrigation,

employment authorized for systems on

Indian reservations, etc......

1059

Superior Bay, Lake Superior, appropriation for lighting channels in..... 754

making tests....

753

under Department of Commerce and

Labor, forLight-House Service... 753, 1430

Coast and Geodetic Survey..

755, 1432

Bureau of Fisheries....

758, 1435

miscellaneous, Alaska Seal Fisheries.... 763

Superior Entry, Wis.,

appropriation for lighting breakwaters and

piers.....

1431

lighting of breakwater and piers, directed .. 1080

Superior National Forest, Minn.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

immigration expenses...

763, 1441 Superior, Wis.,

shipping commissioners...

765 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657

investigating structural materials... 765 terms of court at...

1130 .

ccliv

INDEX.

Supervising Architect, Treasury Department, Page

appropriation for, executive officer, super-

intendents, etc .....

487, 1189

for additional pay to Supervising Archi-

tect.....

708,1386

for skilled employees on public build-

ings, etc..

709, 1386

deficiency appropriation for repairs, etc.,

rooms for..

121

plans, etc., for buildings for Government purposes may be prepared in office of,

at request of head of department,

etc.; reimbursement................

699

Supervisors of Census,

457

appointment and duties...

compensation; allowances...

payment for services of deceased..

Supervisors of Surveys, Public Lands,

appointment authorized ; compensation,

etc.

1416

Suppliesfor Foreign War Vessels,

may be purchased free of tax, from bonded,

and bonded manufacturing, ware-

houses...

88

Supplies Division, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

clerks, etc.

521, 1223

for rent...

356, 1328

Suppliesfor Executive Departments, etc.,

to be advertised and contracted for by Sec-

retary of the Treasury..

531

general supply committee created; duties. 531

preparation of schedules, opening bids,

etc.; articles included ..

531

bond of contractor to include all depart-

ments..

531

report of purchases to committee.......... 531

disbursing officers ineligible for commit-

tee

531

direct purchases restricted..

531

telephone, electric, and power service by

direct contracts.....

531

Supplies, Navy, report of all bids submitted, etc., abolished 591

Supplies, Postal Service,

appropriation for city delivery..

365, 1338

for rural delivery.

366, 1339

for expenses of shipping

366, 1339

to be withdrawn from the mails preceding

weighing periods ....

362

Supplies, United States Courts, appropriation for.......

750, 1427

deficiency appropriation for... 215, 799, 812, 1812

Supreme Court, D. C.,

appropriation for fees of witnesses.

405,996

jurors...

405, 996

for pay of bailiffs, etc .. for miscellaneous expenses..

405, 996 405, 996

for salaries ..

529, 1233

for printing and binding for..

769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous

expenses...

209,788, 1299

for bailiffs, etc ..

788

bond not required of United States or Dis-

trict on appeals, etc., in

464

powers, etc., of, relating to District jail

transferred to Commissioners..

1003

probation officers to be appointed by;

duties, etc..

864

Supreme Court of the United States,

appropriation for Chief and associate jus-

tices....

527, 1232

for marshal.

529, 1232

for clerks to justices.

529, 1232

for printing and binding for....

769, 1447

Supreme Court ofthe United States-Cont'd. Page.

deficiency appropriation for widow of

David J. Brewer..

799

for printing and binding

807

appeals allowed to, in suits affecting allotted lands within Oklahoma east-

ern district...

837

appeals from Commerce Court to; priority of....
appointment of judge on commission to investigate case of second-class mail transportation ....

542 1458

direct appeal from decision of three judges in injunctions based on unconstitu-

tionality of State carrier laws... 557, 1162

part of Post-Office Department printing allotment, 1911, made available for... 1448

provisions to diminish expenses of proceed-

ings in appeals to, and writs of error

and certiorari from..

901

use of printed records, etc., from court

below...

902.

appeals from Commerce Court to; priority

of...

' 1150

to consist of Chief Justice and eight as-

sociate justices..

1152

precedence of associate justices; tempo-

rary performance and duties of

Chief Justice....

1152

salaries; appointment of officers .

1152

clerk, bond, etc.; deputy clerks, duties,

etc.

1152

records of old court of appeals to be kept

by, etc..

1153

fees to be charged by.

1153

marshal, salary and duties; assistants.

1153

reporter, copies of decisions to be delivered

by; second volume...

1153

salary and expenses; delivery of volumes. 1153

reports, distribution by Attorney-General. 1153

digests; restrictions..

1154

additional copies of reports and digests;

estimates..

1155

distribution of Federal Reporter to courts,

departments, etc....

1155

annual term; special terms ..

1156

adjournment, etc., for lack of quorum.. 1156

issue of process, etc...

1156

jurisdiction exclusive if State a party.

1156

original, not exclusive between a State

and its citizens..

1156

exclusive in suits against diplomatic and

consular officers...

1156

original, not exclusive, in suits by diplo

matic, etc., officers...

1156.

issue of writs of prohibition and mandamus

by.

1156

issues of fact to be tried by jury.

1156

appellate jurisdiction specially provided

for...

1156

writs of error allowed from State courts

where decision is against validity

of Federal law or treaty..

1156

decision in favor of State law claimed to

be repugnant to Constitution, etc ... 1156

decision against title, etc. , claimed

under Constitution, etc...

1156

effect of; power of court.

1156

appeals and writs of error from district

courts where jurisdiction of the

court is in issue ..

1157

in prize cases....

1157

where the Constitution is involved .

1157

where the constitutionality of United

States law is questioned ..

1157

INDEX .

cclv

Supreme Court ofthe United States-Cont'd. appealsand writsof error fromdistrict courts where State law is claimed to be in contravention to the Constitution ...
action on questions certified from circuit court of appeals for instructions, etc .....

Page. 1157 1157

certiorari to court of appeals in cases where

decisions of court are final ..

1157

writs of error and appeals allowed from

circuit court of appeals...

1157

appeals allowed from Court of Claims.

1157

time and manner of taking.....

1157

cases in which writs of error and appeals

are allowed from Porto Rico

courts

1157

from supreme courts of Arizona and New

Mexico....

1158

of Hawaii...

1158

from Alaska district court..

1158

from supreme court of Philippine Is-

lands....

1158

from supreme court of a Territory after

it becomes a State...

1158

from court of appeals of District of Co-

lumbia .

1159

certiorari where decisions of court are

final....

1159

appellate jurisdiction in bankruptcy pro-

ceedings...

1159

claims of over two thousand dollars in-

volving appealable questions....... 1160

claims involving uniform construction of

bankruptcy laws..

1160

cases certified from other courts...

1160

precedence of criminal cases on writs of

error from State courts....

1160

taxing cost of printing record .

1160

women admitted to practice in.

1160

Supreme Court Reports, appropriation for...
duties of reporter to publish..
delivery to Attorney- General. distribution .... additional.....

744, 1419 1153 1153 1154 1155

Supreme Court Reports, Digests of,

distribution by Attorney-General of................. 1154

additional ...

1154

Surety Bonds,

authority of Secretary of the Treasury re-

specting, of security, etc., com-

panies.....

241

Surety Bonds, Official,

proceedings in Court of Claims for set-

tlement of, on unadjusted ac-

counts

1141

cases to be reported to Congress by At-

torney-General..

1142

Surety Companies,

deficiency appropriation for expenses, commission to investigate rates, etc.,

for official bonds by.....

891, 1317

restriction on premiums for official bonds

by......

125

commission created to investigate rates,

etc., of.......

126

Surface-Coated Paper,

duty on, bags, etc..

62

Surgeon-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for medical museum and

library..

259, 1054

for clerks, etc....

502, 1205

for rent, dispensary.

504, 1206

for repairs to medical museum....................... 1407

Surveying Public Lands (see also Public Page.

Lands),

appropriation for......

740, 1416

preferences, occupied townships,

etc ...

740, 1416

grants to States and Territories ..... 740, 1416 Irrigation or dry-farming lands .... 741, 1416 reservation or national forest lands. 741, 1416

compensation; extra for Alaska.... 741 , 1416

supervisors of surveys authorized;

compensation ...

1416

for resurveys; mineral locations, etc .. 741, 1416

for metal survey corner monuments.. 741, 1416 additional force for surveyors-general

offices .....

1416

for completing field notes Minnesota,

NorthDakota, and South Dakota. 741, 1417

for townships in Nevada, Oregon, and

Utah..

741

additional grant to Nevada under

Carey Act...

1417

forspecial surveys in Utah counties.. 741, 1417

for continuing surveys in Idaho ... 741, 1417

for Alaska lands; office expenses...... 741, 1417

for resurveys, Nebraska...

1417

for abandoned military reservations.. 741, 12417

deficiency appropriation for...

22,

811, 814, 1323, 1326

for Orville H. Southmayd

124

for surveys in Colorado.....

124

for resurveys, San Diego County, Cal.. 222

for deputy surveyors...

796, 1308

for reimbursing Idaho for... ...... 796, 1308

for Manual of Surveying Instruction, re-

vised edition......

797

resurveys allowance increased to 20 per

cent....

884

surveyors allowed additional per diem............ 890

Surveyors-General,

appropriation for, and office expenses.. 517, 1219

restriction on office expenses..........

1221

Surveyor's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries..

379, 972

for temporary employees..............

379,972

for book typewriter..

382

· recording by typewriter authorized . 382 for surveys to obtain data of old sub-

divisions....

975

Surveys, Northern and Northwestern Lakes,

appropriation for...

730, 1407

extended to New York canal system.. 1407

Surveys, Coast,

appropriation for expenses of.. .... 756, 1432

Surveys, Ocean and Lake,

appropriation for expenses of hydro-

graphic...

613, 1273

Surveys, State,

appropriation for furnishing points to.. 756, 1432

Suspenders,

duty on cotton, etc., and india rubber...

48

silk...

60

woolen ...

54

Susquehanna River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of, above

and below Havre de Grace...... 639, 937

preliminary examination to be made of.. 954

Swaged Steel,

duty on..

23

Swamp-Land Claims and Indemnity, appropriation for adjusting, etc...........
Swamp Lands, grant to Wisconsin of...........

739,1415 822

Swan Quarter Bay, appropriation for improvement of waterwayconnecting Deep Bay, N.C.,with 642

8885

cclvi

INDEX .

352

Swanton, Vt.,

Page.

bridge authorized across Lake Champlain,

Alburg to..

1358

Swayze, W. L.,

deficiency appropriation for.........

776

Sweaters, duty on cotton, etc..
Sweden, appropriation for minister to.............
for secretary of legation... Sweepings ofGold and Silver,
on free list..

48
237, 1027 237, 1028
78

Sweetmeats,

duty on..

38

Swift Creek, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

642

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 954

Swinomish Slough, Wash., appropriation for improvement of........................... 666

Swine,

duty on...

35

Switches, etc., included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations.......

545

to be furnished by common carriers on ap-

plication; enforcement...

547

Switzerland, appropriation for minister to.. for secretary of legation.....
Sword Blades,

337, 1027 337, 1028

duty on...

27

Swords,

duty on..

27

Sycamore,

duty on, sawed boards, etc .......

33

Sycamore, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...........

685

Syracuse, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

691

terms of court at.

1119

T.

T Rails,

duty on iron or steel...

23

T Street NW., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending. 784, 1297 TT Iron or Steel,

duty on..

22

Table Covers.

duty on cotton chenille......

47

Table Knives,

duty on..

27

Table Utensils,

duty on iron or steel enameled, etc., hollow

ware .......

28

Tablets,

duty on medicinal, etc. , drugs in ...

16

Tacks,

duty on cut..

28

Tacoma, Wash.,

appropriation for Cushman Indian School

at, from Puyallup school fund .

1075

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing.....

207

termination ofcontract for Puyallup water-

way in harbor of..

665

terras of court at.

1129

Taft, Honorable William II.,

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission...

898

Taggers Iron or Steel,

duty on. coated with tin or lead..

*23

Tahoe National Forest, Cal. and Nev.,

Page.

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Tailors' Irons,

duty on cast-iron...

26

Tait, William G.,

may bridge Okanogan River, at Omak,

Wash ..

180

Takoma Park, D. C., Library,

deficiency appropriation for maintenance. 1296

for purchase of books....

1296

gift from Andrew Carnegie for, may be ac-

cepted ....

290

acceptance ofsite..

290

commission on construction.

290

opening deferred ..

290

limit of expenses for maintenance.

290

Talladega, Ala. ,

appropriation for public building..

1382

limit ofcost increased, public building.... 677

Tallahassee, Fla.,

terms of court at...

1108

Tallahatchie River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of....... Tallow,
duty on... Tallow, Vegetable,
on free list, for soaps, etc ....... Tamarinds,
on free list..

647, 942 38 76 80

Tampa Bay, Fla., appropriation for improvement of channel

from Clearwater Harbor to.....

644

for improvement of, maintenance.. 645, 941

for improvement of channel from Clear-

waterBaythrough Boca Ceiga Bayto. 941

Tampa, Fla.,

terms of court at.....

1108

Tampico Fiber,

duty on, cables and cordage.

49

dressed, etc.

51

on free list, binding twine; retaliatory duty 73

not manufactured, not specially provided

for....

76

Taney County, Mo., dam authorized across White River in..... 897

Tangier Light, Morocco,

appropriation for annual contribution .. 340, 1030 Tangier, Morocco,

appropriation for interpreter at consu-

late....

346, 1035

Tangipahoa River, La., preliminary examination to be made of... 955

Tank Bottoms, Sugar,

duty on..

34

Tanks,

duty on cylindrical or tubular, for gas,

liquids, etc...

26

Tanners Crossing, Ariz.,

appropriation for constructing bridge across

"Little Colorado River......

1062

Tanners' Knives,

duty on..

27

Tannic Acid or Tannin,

duty on...

12

Tanning,

duty on woods, etc., used for, not specially

provided for...

13

on free list, articles, crude, used in dyeing,

not specially provided for..........

72

Tantalum ,

duty on.

30

Tape Needles,

duty on....

28

Tapers,

duty on wax...

66

8882

INDEX .

cclvii

***88*88 8*88 88*2 8*88 828882888

Tapes, duty on cotton, flax, etc....
measuring, flax, etc .........

Page. 50 49

Tapestries, duty on cotton, etc....... 47

Tapestry Carpets,

duty on Brussels ...

55

velvet.......

55

Tapioca, and Tapioca Flour,

on free list....

80

Tar,

on free list, wood......

80

Tar, Coal,

on free list, crude.......

74

pitch of....

74

products of, not medicinal, colors, or

dyes.....

74

Tar River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 642, 938

Tar Spreading Machines,

on free list, for improving roads, prior to

January 1, 1911 ...

32

Tarboro, N. C.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

687

Tarentum, Pa.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiringsite for public building at, author-

ized ...

692

Target Practice, Army Small-Arms,

appropriation for ammunition for, targets,

etc...

260, 1057

for marksmen's medals, prizes, etc ... 260, 1058

Targhee National Forest, Idaho and Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Tariff (see also Customs),

articles solely for exhibition at Merchants

and Manufacturers' Exchange ad-

mitted in bond free of duty.....

1357

payment on withdrawals .

1358

printing and binding pertaining to, may be

done onrequisition ofRepresentative

1

Oscar W. Underwood ...

1317

Tariff Act of1897,

termination ofreciprocal commercial agree-

ments under...

83

Tariff Board, if established by law, to make report on wool, etc., December, 1911.......... 1363

Tariffof1909,

appropriation for expenses advancing commercial, etc., interests as provided

by......

484, 1186

deficiency appropriation for securing infor-

mation to aid in administering.. 119, 703, 1363

customs duties levied on imports into

United States and possessions..

11

2 2 228 * * * 8

Philippines, Gaum, and Tutuila ex-

cepted....

11

dutiable list: Schedule A. Chemicals,

oils, and paints....

12

Schedule B. Earths, earthenware, and

glassware...

17

Schedule C. Metals and manufactures of. 21

Schedule D. Wood and manufactures of. 33

Schedule E. Sugar, molasses, and manu-

factures of....

34

Schedule F. Tobacco and manufactures

of...

34

Schedule G. Agricultural products and

provisions...

35

Schedule H. Spirits, wines, and other

beverages...

39

88740° -VOL 36, PT 1-11- -110

22 909 5585 8 8 12 N

Tariff of1909-Continued . dutiable list: Schedule I. Cotton manufactures...
Schedule J. Flax, hemp, and jute, and manufactures of...
Schedule K. Wool and manufactures of. Schedule L. Silks and silk goods........
Schedule M. Pulp, papers, and books... Schedule N. Sundries...
articles not enumerated, unmanufactured ....
manufactured .. similar to enumerated .. similar to two or more.. ""component of chief value " con-
strued.. free list... foregoing to constitute minimum tariff. maximum tariff, after March 31, 1910, to
have additional 25 per cent levied.. minimum rates on products of countries
not paying export bounties, nor discriminating against United States products... proclamation announcing, to be issued . extension or limitation...
restoration of, if discriminations are made.....
applicable to products imported directly or indirectly..
employees to secure information authorized ...
Cuban reciprocity treaty not impaired .... notice of termination of commercial agree-
ments with foreign countries under Act of 1897, to be given..... trade with the Philippines (see al.o Philippine Islands).. countervailing duties on imports upon which bounties have been paid.. regulations for identification, etc.. country of origin to be marked on all foreign articles imported .... packages to have marked, etc., country of origin, and contents of.. compliance required before delivery.. punishment for fraudulent violations.
prohibition against importing obscene books, etc.
drugs, etc., to prevent conception or produce abortion....
lottery tickets or advertisements..
detention of prohibited articles... exception as to drugs in bulk.. punishment for aiding, etc. , violations,
by officials....
jurisdiction for seizure, etc., of prohibited articles....
importation of neat cattle and their hides prohibited...
suspension by proclamation if country not affected with contagious or infectious disease..
punishment for violations.
articles manufactured by convict labor prohibited importation .
discriminating duty on imports in foreign vessels....
exemptions under treaties or acts of Congress .
retail trade with contiguous countries. no imports allowed, except under treaty
rights, unless in United States vessels, or those of country of origin.... not applicable to countries having no similar provision....

ANHOS FEFE FE

Page. 41
48 52 55 60 64
71 71 71
71 71 82 82
82 82 82
83 83
83 83
83
83 85 85
85 85 85 86
86 86 86 86 86
86
86
86
87 87 87
87 87 87
87
87

cclviii

INDEX.

Tariff of1909-Continued.
machinery for repairs admitted free; bond, etc., required..
materials for construction, etc. , of vessels in foreign trade admitted free.
restriction as to coastwise trade....
vessels built for foreign account not allowed in coastwise trade ..
articles for repair of American vessels in foreign, etc., trade may be withdrawn from bonded warehouses free of duty...
purchase of supplies from warehouses for
foreign war vessels, free of duty or tax, allowed ; conditions.... free entry of goods from sunken vessels in American waters, abandoned two
years..... regulations of articles made in bonded
manufacturing warehouses.. bonded smelting warehouses.... drawback regulations.. application to domestic alcohol in medic
inal, etc., preparations exported.... materials for vessels built for foreign
account..
duty on domestic articles reimported.. special regulations for two years for timber
from forests on Saint John River, etc. , Me. Saint Croix River, etc. , Me.
customs administration provisions . ownership of imports determined.. invoice requirements... consular authentication .... necessary for imports valued over $100. declarations to accompany.. penalty for false....
corrections permitted by entryman ... appraisal by customs officer..
additional duty if undervalued... forfeiture if undervaluation exceeds
75 per cent..
cost of production required of imports consigned for sale..
punishment for entries by means of fraudulent, etc..
appraisers, etc., to ascertain actual
market value and wholesale price of goods in principal markets of country whence imported...
cost of production, if market value, etc., not ascertained .......
additions to be made.. determination of market value, etc., of
goods not sold in open market in country of production .. restricted to not less than wholesale
price in United States..
general appraisers, appointment, duties, etc...
revision of appraisements by.. authority of.. penalty for refusing to appear, etc.,
before...
punishment for false swearing, etc., before....
decisions to be preserved , etc..... determination of actual market value
or wholesale price of imports subject to ad valorem duties.... withdrawals from warehouses subject to duty, etc., at time of withdrawal ...
perishables or explosives..... urden of proof in cases of seizures. ....

8888888888

Page. 87 88 88 88
88
88
89 90 90 90 90
91 91 91 91 91 91 92 92 95 95 96 96 96 96 97
97 97 97
98 98 98 98 99 100 101 101
101 101 101 101

888888 555

CAREE8ER.LS5S8

Tariff of 1909-Continued . customs administration; fees and oaths by customs officers abolished ; exceptions.... declarations in case of exports.. penalties for false statements.. compensation in lieu of fees..
no allowance for damages; abandonment permitted..
permanent appropriation for refund of overpayments, etc.
customs officers not personally liable for classifications, etc., where appeal might be taken....
punishment for bribery, etc., of officials. accepting unlawful fees, etc. , by officers ..
baggage in transit to foreign countries... repeal of previous laws..
not to affect pending actions, etc. abandoned property.
Court of Customs Appeals created. composition, officers, etc.. to organize at Washington, D. C. , in 60 days... exclusive jurisdiction of appeals from final decisions of general appraisers.. time for filing appeals .. extended for Alaska and island possessions...
pending cases to be certified to....
completion of testimony . powers conferred ... additional clerks, etc.. reporter's duties ..... contingent expenses.. Assistant Attorney-General, Deputy As-
sistant, and attorneys to be appointed for customs business.. employment of special attorneys... goods imported but not entered or permit for delivery issued, subject to provisions of this Act.. weightto be determined at time ofentry.
tobacco, snuff, and cigars, internal-revenue provisions...
tonnage tax on vessels from North and Cen-
tral America, West Indies, etc..... other foreign ports... vessels in distress, or not in trade, ex-
cepted... rights of ferryboats, yachts, etc., not
affected .
repeal of exemptions to Brazil mail steamships....
conflicting tonnage laws.
tonnage provisions to take effect in 60 days. annual excise tax on foreign-built yachts
owned, etc., by citizens.
acceptance of duty in lieu of; privileges, requirements, etc...
tonnage exemptions extended.. vesselsadmitted to registry not included. special excise tax on corporations... Panama Canal, additional issue of bonds to
meet construction, etc., expenses... certificates of indebtedness, increased
amount of, authorized .
repeal ofsections 1 to 4 of Tariff Act of 1897. inconsistent laws.. present rights or liabilities not affected..
customs administration law continued as amended .....
provisions for solicitor of customs and assistants, repealed ..............

Page.
102 102 102 102
102
103
103 103
103 104 104 104 105 105 105
105
106 107
107 107 107 107 107 107 108
108 108
108 108
108
111
112
112
112 112 112
112
112 112 112 112
117
117 118 118 118
118
118

INDEX .

cclix

Tariff, Philippine (see Philippine Tariff of Page. 1909).

Tariffs, International Bureau for Publication
ofCustoms, appropriation for annual contribution.. 341, 1031

Tariffs ofForeign Countries, appropriation for collating, etc........ 525, 1227

Tariffs ofRates, etc. , Interstate Commerce,

filed with commission' to be preserved as

public records....

555

Tarrytown, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 635

Tartaric Acid,

duty on.

12

Tartars and Wine Lees,

duty on.

12

Tartrate ofSoda or Potash,

duty on.

.12

Tassels,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair..

60

silk.

60

woolen..

54

Taunton River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 632, 934

Tax, Corporation,

provisions for...

112

Tax on Corporations, Internal Revenue,

appropriation for expenses of collecting. 494, 1197

for classifying, etc., returns of corpora-

tions....

494, 1197

restriction on inspection ofreturns. 494, 1197

deficiency appropriation for classifying,

etc., returns...

1291

for collecting, etc.; reappropriation .. 780, 1291

Taxation, Equality of, to be secured in constitution of Arizona... 569

of New Mexico.............

559

Taxes, D. C.,

appropriation for advertising notices of

arrears of.....

387,974

Taxes, Federal, States, etc.,

certificates of indebtedness issued by United States to be exempt from all. 192

Taxes, Internal Revenue,

appropriation for refunding collections. 713, 1390

deficiency appropriation for refunding

illegally collected ..

219, 1321

Taxes on Incomes,

proposed amendment to the Constitution

authorizing Congress to levy...... 184

Tay-cum-e-ge-shig, Alias William G. Johnson,

payment to heirs of, from Chippewa tribal

funds..

330

Taylor, Captain John R. M.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in

accounts..

779

Taylor, Norris P.,. deficiency appropriation for services...... 804

Taylors Falls, Minn., bridge authorized across Saint Croix River

between Saint Croix Falls, Wis. , and. 263

Taylorsville, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized..

689

Tchula Lake, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 647, 942 Tea and Tea Plants,

on free list; restriction.......

80

Teazels,

duty on.

37

Teeth,

' on free list, natural, or unmanufactured... 80

88$ 8888

Teheran, Persia,

Page,

appropriation for interpreter to consulate-

general......

338

Telegraph Companies,

held to be common carriers..

544

charges to be just and reasonable; unjust

unlawful...

545

classification of messages.

545

contracts with carrier for exchange of

services allowed...

546

Telegraph Connecting Capitol, Departments,

and Printing Office, D. C.,

appropriation for...

728, 1404

Telegraph, etc., Cables, duty on, composed of metal, rubber, etc.. 24

Telegraph Poles,

duty on.

33

Telegraph, Wireless,

apparatus required on ocean-going steam

vessels...

629

Telegraph Wires, duty on, composed of metal, rubber, etc.. 24

Telephone Apparatus, Army Wireless,

deficiency appropriation for development,

etc., of....

790

Telephone Companies,

held to be common carriers..

545

charges to be just and reasonable; if unjust

unlawful...

545

classification of messages.

545

contracts with carriers for exchange of

services allowed............

546

Telephone Poles,

duty on...

33

Telephone Service,

established between Two Rivers life-saving

station and Twin River Point Light-

house, Wis....

194

Telephone Service, Executive Departments, etc.,

D. C.,

direct contracts to be made for..............

531

Telephone Wires, duty on, composed of metal, rubber, etc.. 24

Telescopes,

duty on.

21

Tendons ofAnimals,

on free list, crude, etc. , not specially pro-

vided for.....

73

Tennessee,

assigned to sixth judicial circuit....

1131

commission of Army officers to report on

advisability of maneuvering camps,

etc., for troops of neighboring States

on proposed donation of lands in... 1457

Tennessee, Alabama and Kentucky Railway,

may bridge Cumberland River, Gainsboro,

Tenn ...

185

Tennessee Eastern Judicial District,

judge for, to serve in middle district.

1087

counties composing southern division.

1124

northern division..

1124

northeastern division...

1124

terms of court..

1124

Tennessee Middle Judicial District,

judge for eastern district to serve in....... 1087

counties composing Nashville division..... 1124

northeastern division........

1124

terms of court.

1125

Tennessee River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Chattanooga, Tenn..

652, 945

for improvement of, below Chattanooga,

Tenn., Hales Bar.

652, 730

for improvement of open-channel work

to Riverton, Ala..

652, 945

cclx

INDEX.

Tennessee River-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for improvement of Colbert

and Bee Tree Shoals.....

652

for improvement of, below Riverton,

Ala ..

652, 945

for lighting.

754

bridge_authorized across, Chattanooga,

Tenn .

908

to Hill City, Tenn .

908

time extended for lock and dam in, Chat-

tanooga, Tenn..........

181

unexpended balance for improving, to be

used for Colbert and Bee Tree Shoals

Canal..

871

Tennessee Western Judicial District,

counties composing western division .

1125

eastern division....

1125

terms of court.

1125

Tensas River, La.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 647

Tents, etc.,

loan authorized to Appalachian Exposition

Company, Knoxville, Tenn..

883

Confederate Veterans' Reunion, Mobile,

Ala

876

Little Rock, Ark..

1456

Elks' reunion, Detroit, Mich..

885

Grand Army of the Republic, encamp-

ment at Salt Lake City, Utah ...

183

Terminal Facilities,

data concerning, to be secured in river and

harbor examinations ...

668

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations......

545

Terne Plates,

duty on..

23

Terra Alba,

80

on free list, not made from gypsum or plas-

ter rock...

80

Terra Cotta, Works in,

on free list, by societies, etc., for exhibi-

tion, not for sale; conditions......

81

produced more than 100 years before

importation ....

· 82

Terra Japonica,

on free list..

80

Territorial Courts,

customs cases pending in, transferred to

customs court of appeals......... 107, 1145

jurisdiction in appeals from Board of Gen-

eral Appraisers to cease....

106

Territorial Delegates,

appropriation for compensation.... 473, 1175

for mileage....

473, 1175

for clerk hire..

478, 1175

Territorial Homes for Disabled Volunteer

Soldiers,

appropriations for aid to...

736, 1413

deduction for amounts collected from

inmates...

736, 1413

deficiency appropriation for aid to....._211 , 1301 Territories,

appropriation for expenses, government

in...

500, 1202

foragricultural experimentstationsin. 437, 1261 allotment for militia available for expenses

of joint maneuvers in 1908 ...

329

arid lands, temporary withdrawals from

entry, pending applications under

Carey Act..

237

certified copies of population and agricul-

tural census returns may be fur-

nished to...

10

credit directed in disallowed accounts of,

for expenses of militia participating

in Army maneuvers, etc.....

123

Territories -Continued .

Page.

discriminations against wearers of United

States uniforms by theaters, etc., a

misdemeanor; penalty .

963

included in census of 1910 ...

1

organized militia to participate in Army

manevers, etc.; expenses, etc.

329

transfer of records, etc., to district court,

on admission as State....

1104

enforcement by district judge.

1104

cognizance of pending cases.....

1104

Testing Machinefor Physical Constants, deficiency appropriation for procuring, etc. 216

Testing Machines, Watertown Arsenal, Mass. ,

appropriation for operating, etc ........ 720, 1398

Teton National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251

Texarkana, Ark., terms of court at.

1107

Texarkana, Tex.,,

appropriation for public building.......

707

terms of court at......................

1126

Texas, appropriation for improvement of inland waterway on coast of....
between Brazos River and Matagorda Bay..
assigned to fifth judicial circuit. tick-infested cattle may be admitted from
Mexico into, below quarantine line.
Texas City, Tex., appropriation for improvement of channel from Galveston to..

650 650 1131 1240
943

Texas Eastern Judicial District, counties composing Tyler division . Beaumont division.. Sherman division... Jefferson division... Paris division....... Texarkana division.. terms of court...
Texas Judicial Districts, salaries of district attorneys and marshals made uniform..
Texas- New Mexico Boundary Line, provision in proposed constitution of New Mexico changing, declared of no effect.... former location of Clark lines deemed conclusive.......
commission authorized to re-mark, etc., established ...
declaration of true lines

1126 1126 1126 1126 1126 1126 1126
828
1454 .
1455
1455 1455

survey and re-marking by monuments, etc
appropriation for expenses. Texas Northern Judicial District,
counties composing Dallas division . Fort Worth division.....
Amarillo division............ Abilene division...
San Angelo division... terms of court... Texas Southern Judicial District,
counties composing Laredo division.. Brownsville division.... Galveston division.... Houston division...... Victoria division..............................
terms of court... Texas Western Judicial District,
counties composing Austin division.... San Antonio division.... El Paso division..... Waco division..

1455 1455
1125 1125 1125 1125 1125 1125
1127 1127 1127 1127 1127 1127
1126 1126 1126 1126

INDEX .

cclxi

799582B

Texas Western Judicial District-Continued. Page.

counties composing Del Rio division ...... 1126

terms of court..

1126

Thacker Coal Mining Company,

may bridge Tug River, Thacker, W. Va... 197

Thacker, W. Va., bridge authorized across Tug River, at.... 197

Thames River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of.........

633

for lighting...

754

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 669

Thanks of United States Government,

to Italy for gift of engravings..........

875

Thanks ofCongress,

tendered Robert E. Peary, Navy, for

Arctic explorations in reaching the

North Pole

1346

The Dalles, Oreg.,

appropriation for public building.

1370

acquiring site and erecting public building

åt, authorized................

687

Theaters, e.c.,

penalty for discriminating against wearers of United States uniforms by...... 963

Theatrical Grease Paints,

duty o .....

16

Theatrical Scenery, etc.,

on free list, for temporary exhibition, .

limitations...

78

Theodore, Utah,

appropriation for building bridge across

Duchesne River, at.....

... 1074

Thimble Shoal Light-Station, Va.,

deficiency appropriation for reestablishing. 800

Third Assistant Postmaster General,

appropriation for, superintendents, clerks,

etc...

520, 1222

for superintendent, division of stamps,

etc..

520, 1222

for superintendent, division of finance,

etc.

520, 1222

for superintendent, division of classifica-

tion, etc..

520, 1222

for superintendent, division of registered

mails.....

520, 1223

for per diem, assistant superintendents,

etc...

521

for superintendent, division of money

orders, etc......

521, 1223

for postal service, office of........... 364, 1337

for stamps, postal cards, etc..

364, 1337

for indemnity, lost registered mail; third

and fourth class included ..

365, 1337

for indemnity, lost international regis-

tered articles..

365, 1337

payment for prior years..

1338

for travel and miscellaneousexpenses. 365, 1338

for counsel, second-class mail privilege

suits....

365, 1338

Third-Class Mail Matter,

useof"Pleasedo notopen until Christmas"

allowed on...

1340

Third Judicial Circuit,

States included in..

1131

three circuit judges authorized for...

1131

ThirteenthCensus(see also, Census, Thirteenth),

appropriation for expenses of, etc.; avail-

able until June 30, 1912.

1

special agents, basis of pay modified ..

874

population inquiries to include nationality

or mother tongue of foreign-born per-

sons, etc..

877

Thirteenth Street NW., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing.

925

appropriation for expenses.

925

Thomasville, Ga.,

Page.

appropriation for public building.

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

684

Thompson, R. W.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1316 Thorite,

duty on...

30

Thorium,

duty on, oxides and salts of........................

30

Thrall, J. G., deficiency appropriation for extra services. 127

Threads,

duty on, cotton .

· 41

cotton spool .

42

flax, hemp, or ramie.

49

silk, not specially provided for..

imitation...

60

Three-Ply Carpets,

duty on....

55

Three Rivers, Mich.,

appropriation for public building.

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Threshing Machines,

duty on; admitted free from country not

imposing duty.....

71

Through Routes, etc. , Interstate Commerce,

establishment by Commission authorized

on failure of carriers .....

552

to include water connections..

552

exceptions, electric lines not carrying

freight...

552

transportation wholly by water.

552

to embrace entire line of road; excep-

tion ......

552

choice of shipper to be observed ; bill-

ing, etc....

553

facilities for operating, to be provided by

interstate carriers....

545

Thyme,

on free list, oil......

77

Tickfaw River, La., appropriation for improvement of........ 647

Ties, Cotton,

duty on, iron or steel .....

22

Ties, Railroad,

duty on....

Tiffin, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1382

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

687

Tifton, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

681

Tights, duty on, cotton, etc.......

48

Tiles or Tiling,

duty on....

17

glass...

21

marble, or onyx, paving.

21

pill, of china, etc., decorated, etc...

18

not decorated, etc...

18

Tilghman Island Harbor, Md., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671
Tillamook Bay and Bar, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of........ 663, 950 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674
Timber,

census inquiries of acreage of, on farms.... 4,227

duty on, hewn, sided, or squared, not

sawed....

33

round, for spars or wharves..

33

unmanufactured, not specially pro-

vided for.....

81

**

233

cclxii

INDEX.

Timber-Continued.

Page.

excepted from prohibition against rail-

roads carrying products in which in-

terested...

547

punishment for unlawfully cutting, etc.,

on public lands, Indian trust allot-

ments, etc....

857

Timber Depredations , Public Lands,

appropriation for expenses, preventing. 739, 1415

Timber, Indian Lands,

sales permitted from unallotted lands in

reservations; proceeds......

857

Minnesota and Wisconsin, excepted .. 857

from trust allotments; proceeds....

857

Timber on Indian Reservations,

appropriation for protection, etc., of..

271

Menominee, Wis., excluded...

271

Red Lake, Minn. , excluded..

271

Timber Preservation,

appropriation for investigating methods

of, etc......

430, 1252

Time Detectors,

"6 duty on, movements, etc....

31

Times," Norwegian Steamship,

deficiency appropriation for refund of fine

to master...

1295

Tin,

on free list, black oxide of...

80



in bars, blocks, pigs, or grain or granu-

lated..

80

ore; dutiable when native mines pro-

duce 1,500 tons a year............

80

Tin Plates,

duty on.

23

Tinsel Wire,

duty on.......

30

articles.....

30

beltings......

30

braids of...

30

bullions of...

30

embroideries of...

30

fabrics of....

30

galloons of...

30

laces...

30

ornaments.......

30

ribbons...

30

toys..

30

trimmings.....

30

Tipton, WillM.,

deficiency appropriation for.........

1306

Tire Fabrics,

duty on, cotton, etc., and india fubber... 48

Tires, Locomotive,

duty on.....

29

Tirrell, C. Q., late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow of..... 1317

Tissue Paper,

duty on..

61

Titanium,

duty on......

30

TitleGuaranty and Surety Company,

deficiency appropriation for paying, surety

on bond of deputy surveyor...

1308

Titles to Lands in District ofColumbia,

appropriation for investigating United

States...

749

Titusville, Pa.,

appropriation for public building....

1383

Tobacco,

appropriation for investigating improved.

methods ofgrowing, etc.

422, 1242

classification of, under Tariff Act.....

35

duty on, cigars and cigarettes..

35

filler...

35

not specially provided for..

35

2018 2 **

Tobacco-Continued.
duty on, pouches.. scrap . snuff..
wrapper.. on free list, stems...

Page. 70 35 35 34

reimported to pay internal-revenue tax,

if exported without....

73

special provisions for, imported from

Philippine Islands...

84

Tobacco and Manufactures of,

Schedule F, Tariff of 1909

34

Tobacco, Domestic,

packages required for snuff, and chewing

and smoking..

108

marking required..

109

not applicable to exports in bond..

109

sales of perique, etc. , from one manu-

facturer to another or for export... 109

combinations of materials permitted ..

109

internal-revenue tax on snuff....

109

chewing and smoking...

109

new boxes required for cigars; quantity

allowed..

109

punishment for violations..

109

sales at retail..

109

packages required of cigarettes; quantity

allowed..

109

affixing and canceling stamps..

110

imported cigarettes...

110

internal-revenue tax on cigars and cigar-

ettes....

110

distinction between cigars and cigar-

ettes....

110

stamps to be provided for new ratings of

cigars and cigarettes..

110

restriction on packages, wrappers, etc..... 110

lottery orders, indecent pictures, etc.,

forbidden with...

110

penalty for....

110

new provisions to take effect July 1, 1910.. 110 unstemmed natural leaf, notsubject totax. 110

buying and selling, without tax allowed. 110

dealers in leaf tobacco include all who sell

natural leaf to manufacturers...

110

farmers and producers excepted ...

110

regulations of.....

111

Togus, Me.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home....

733, 1409

Toilet Articles,

duty on, containing alcohol..

16

not containing alcohol....

16

floral waters....

16

on free list, of persons arriving in United

States; restriction.....

80

Toilet Preparations,

drawbackallowed on domestic alcohol used

in manufacture of, exported ....... 90

Toilet Soaps,

duty on.

16

Toilet Waters,

duty on.

16

Toiyabe National Forest, Nev.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1251 Tokyo, Japan,

appropriation for ground rent of em-

bassy...

340, 1030

Toledo, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

653, 946

for public building.

707

terms of court at.

1121

Tolidin,

on free list..

74

INDEX.

cclxiii

Toluidine, on free list...

Page. Torpedo Boats, Submarine,

Page.

74 construction of four, authorized; appro-

Toluol,

on free list.......

74

Tomah, Wis., appropriation for Indian school........ 287, 1076

Tombigbee River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams....

729

Tombigbee River, Ala. and Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts.....

... 646, 942, 1406

formaintenance of, to Demopolis, Ala. 646, 942

to Columbus, Miss...

646

to Walkers Bridge, Miss...

646, 942

bridge_authorized across, at Iron Wood

Bluff, Miss........

897

Toms River, N. J.,

priation.

628

appropriation for, heretofore authorized..629, 1288 construction of four, authorized; cost ..... 1287

appropriation for..

1287

eight-hour workday restriction on

expenditure...

1287

Torpedo Defense, Army,

appropriation for preservation, etc., of

structures for...

596, 1341

Philippine Islands ..

... 598, 1343

Torpedo Depot, Fort Totten, N. Y., appropriation for expenses .

598, 1342

Torpedo Station, Navy, Pacific Coast,

appropriation for purchase of land for;

equipment, etc....

618

appropriation for improvement of......... 637 Torpedo Station, Newport, R. I., Naval,

.Tongass National Forest, Alaska,

appropriation for maintenance, etc .. 612, 1271

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1251 | for new machinery and tools..

... 612

Tongue River Indian Reservation, Mont.,

for high-pressure air plant...

612

appropriation for civilization, etc., of In-

dians on..

277, 1066

deficiency appropriation for irrigation.... 223

Tonnage Duty,

on vessels from ports in North and Central

America, West Indies,, Caribbean .

deficiency appropriation for...... 617, 1322, 1326

Torpedo Vessels, Navy, deficiency appropriation for housing................. 221

Torpedoes, etc., Navy,

appropriation for purchase, etc....... 612, 1271

for remodeling...

612

Sea, etc..

111 Torroella y Rooney, Juan, ofCuba;

other foreign ports.

111 admitted to Military Academy for instruc-

vessels in distress, or not in trade, ex-

tion; condition, etc...

324

cepted.....

112 Tournay Velvet Carpets,

5995

ferryboats, yachts, etc., not affected ..

112 duty on..

repeal of exemptions to Brazil mail steam-

,

ships....

112 duty on flax.......

49

conflicting tonnage laws.

112

hemp ...

49

provisions to take effect in 60 days.

112 Towboats, Barges, etc.,

foreign-built yachts owned by citizens,

appropriation for designing and construct-

allowed exemptions, etc......

112

ing, by Mississippi River Commis-

vessels entering otherwise than by sea

sion for experimental use...

659

reciprocally exempt from...

234 Town Creek,

Tonquin, Tonqua, or Tonka Beans, on free list.
Tonto National Forest, Ariz.,

bridg·e authorized aqross, Brunswick Coun-

80

ty, N. C ......

350

Town Sites,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 429, 1252 on reclamation projects, reappraisal and

Tool Steel,

sale of unsold lots in.

465

duty on substitutes for......

23

manner of payment.....

466

Tools,

duty on, machine.

32

track, iron or steel.....

25

Tools ofTrade, etc.,

on free list, of immigrants.....................

78

Toothpicks,

duty on wood, etc ......

34

Topeka, Kans.,

appropriation for public building......... 1383

terms of court at..

1112

**

sale of lands on Cheyenne River Indian

Reservation, S. Dak., for.

602

sale of lots, etc., Fort Berthold Indian

Reservation, N. Dak...

456

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak. 441 Rosebud Indian Reservation, S. Dak.. 449

· reserved lands on Siletz Indian Reserva-

tion, Oreg..

367

stations required at, on railroad rights of

way in Indian lands..

859

Topographic Surveys, appropriation for...

survey and sales, on Yakima Indian Reser-

743, 1418

vation, Wash..

348

Topography Division, Post Office Department, appropriation for topographer, assistant

appropriation for expenses; disposition of

proceeds..

349

draftsmen, etc ..

521, 1223 Toy Marbles,

for miscellaneous expenses, post-route

duty on, not specially provided for...... 66

maps, etc.

522, 1224 Toys,

Topping, W. S.,

duty on china, etc., decorated, etc..

18

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1318

china, etc., not decorated, etc.....

18

Torpedo BoatDestroyers, construction of six, authorized ; appro-

not specially provided for....

66

parts of, not specially provided for..

66

priation.

* 628

tinsel wire, etc..

30

construction of eight authorized; cost.. 1287 Trachoma,

appropriation for construction of, previ-

appropriation for prevention, etc., among

ously authorized .......

1288

Indians..

271, 1059

Torpedo Boats, appropriation for construction of, with

deficiency appropriation for prevention,

etc., among Indians.......

1323

vitals below water line......

629 Tracing Cloth,

small vessels authorized; cost...

629 duty on cotton.....

46

800888

cclxiv

INDEX .

Track Tools,

Page.

duty on, iron or steel..

25

Trade Conditions Abroad, in United States, etc.,

appropriation for commercial agents to

investigate...

524, 1226

Trade- Marks,

marks not accepted for registration ........ 919

permissible use of names, if otherwise

registrable.....

919

Trade Relations Bureau, Department ofState,

salary of chief of bureau increased .

1186

Traffic on Rivers and Inland Waterways,

uniform classification of freight to be made

for statistics of.............

668, 952

Training Schoolfor Boys, D. C. (see National

Training School for Boys, D. C.). Training Stations, Naval (see Naval Training
Stations).

Transfer Facilities,

data concerning, to be secured in river and

harbor examinations..

668

included as transportation in interstate

commerce .

545

Transfer Paper, etc.,

duty on, with imprints from lithographic

plates.....

28

Transit Pay, Diplomatic and Consular Officers,

appropriation for...

338, 1029

Transportation, term to include cars and all instrumental-

ities for shipment..

545

services for receipt, delivery, icing,

storage, etc..

545

to be furnished on reasonable requests... 545

interstate common carriers to establish

through routes with just and reason-

able rates for....

545

facilities for operating.

545

exchange, etc., of cars; compensation .. 545 charges by, to be just and reasonable.. 545

ifunjust and unreasonable, prohibited. 545

free, forbidden; exceptions ..

546

common carriers to pay for facilities of,

furnished by shippers .

553

regulations of interstate and foreign_com-

merce, of females for immoral pur-

poses, etc

825

Transportation, Army, appropriation for supplies, etc... shipment of excess baggage ...... officers' horses ; limit ..
for payment to land-grant roads bond aided ...

255, 1050 255
255 not 256, 1050

fordraftanimals, wagons, drayage, etc. 256, 1051 forvessels; transport service, etc..... 256, 1051
officers, etc., Revenue-Cutter Service . 1051

secretaries, etc., Young Men's Chris-

tian Association ..

256, 1051

merchandise to Guam allowed on

transports ..

256, 1051

use for official duties by officers .

1051

for boats for harbor and seacoast artillery

service.... deficiency appropriation for...

256, 1051 220,

225, 789, 809, 813, 1321, 1326

for relief of sufferers, Louisiana storm... 789

suspensions for transportation of officers'

authorized horses for 1909 and 1910,

removed...

1053

reimbursement for payments made on

account of.

1053

Transportation, Diplomatic and Consular

Service,

appropriation for officers to and from

posts.

340, 1030

deficiencyappropriation for . 223, 226, 774, 811 , 814

Transportation, Mail (see Mail Transporta- Page. tion).

Transportation, Marine Corps, appropriation for..
deficiency appropriation for..

626, 1286 1302

Transportation, Navy, appropriation for..

608, 1268

deficiency appropriation for ...... 221 , 226, 1322

Transports, etc., Army,

appropriation for expenses of.

256, 1051

officers, etc., Revenue-Cutter Service

allowed on...

1051

transportation of secretaries, etc., of

Young Men's Christian Association

on .

256, 1051

merchandise for Guam may be trans-

ported on..

256, 1051

may carry relief for sufferers, famine in

China .

919

use for delegates to Pan-American Conference, Buenos Aires, authorized... 877

Travers, Arthur M.,
deficiency appropriation for extra services. Travers City, Mich.,
appropriation for public building................... enlargement of public building at, au-
thorized ..

801 1383
679

Treasurer of the United States,

appropriation for, assistant, deputy, cash-

ier, tellers, etc ..

490, 1191

for superintendent redemption of na-

tional currency...

490, 1192

for paper for checks and drafts..

497

for District of Columbia sinking-fund

office under....

376, 969

deficiency appropriation for salary.

119

for clerk..

204

for employees from Engraving and Printing Bureau.
for credit, amount deposited with States. for loss on recoinage of silver dollars....... for reimbursement for loss.... for credit of unavailable funds... credit authorized in accounts of assistant
treasurer, Boston, Mass . appropriation for... duties as treasurer of board of trustees of

776 776 777 1291 1291
347 348

postal savings deposits.......

816

payments to employees on emergency cur-

rency, legalized ...

204

Treasury Decisions, decisions of Court of Customs Appeals to

be published in...

1144

Treasury Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

clerks, etc..

485, 1187

for chief clerk, assistant superintendent,

clerks, etc..

485, 1187

duties of chief clerk specified ...

1187

forengineers, watchmen, laborers, etc. 485, 1188

for general supply committee .... 486, 1188

for divisions in Secretary's office, clerks,

etc ..

486, 1188

bookkeeping and warrants. customs .

486, 1188 486, 1188

appointments

486, 1188

public moneys . foans and currency.
Revenue-Cutter Service..

486, 1188 486, 1188 487, 1189

printing and stationery. mails and files ......

487, 1189 487, 1189

special agents..

487, 1189

for disbursing clerk, deputy, clerks,

etc ..

487, 1189

authority of deputy; bond to disburs-

ing clerk; liability..

487

INDEX .

cclxv

Treasury Department-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for disbursing clerk, deputy

clerks, etc. , bond of disbursing clerk

to cover acts of deputy .

487

for Supervising Architect, assistant,

etc....

487, 1189

for Comptroller of the Treasury, assistant,

clerks, etc.....

488, 1190

deputy auditors abolished, powers

transferred...

1190

for Auditor for the Treasury Depart

ment, clerks, etc..

488, 1190

for Auditor for War Department, clerks,

etc..

488, 1190

for Auditor for Navy Department,

clerks, etc....

488, 1190

for Auditor for Interior Department,

clerks, etc..

488, 1190

for Auditor for State, etc., Departments,

clerks, etc..

489, 1191

for Auditor for Post-Office Department,

assistant and chief clerk, clerks

etc ....

489, 1191

adding machines..

489

for Treasurer, assistant, deputy, cashier,

tellers, clerks, etc ...

.489, 1191

for Register, assistant, clerks, etc.... 490, 1192

for Comptroller of the Currency, depu-

ties, clerks, etc ..

490; 1192

for Commissioner of Internal Revenue,

deputies, clerks, etc..

491, 1193

for Superintendent Life-Saving Service,

clerks, etc..

491, 1193

for Director Bureau of Engraving and

Printing, clerks, etc.....

491 , 1193

for Chief of Secret Service Division,

clerks, etc....

492, 1194

for Director of the Mint, clerks, etc.. 492, 1194 for Surgeon-General Public Health and

Marine-Hospital Service, clerks,

etc..

492, 1194

for contingent expenses..

492, 1194

purchases of stationery for all branches

of service under the Department

included.....

1195

for investigations to secure better ad-

ministrative methods...

493, 1195

for rent.....

... 493,1195

forlabor-saving machines, etc.. .... 493, 1196

for automatic fire-alarm system..

1196

for contingent expenses, Auditor for

Post-Office Department....

494, 1196

for internal-revenue collectors, deputies,

agents, etc....

494, 1196

corporation tax returns.

494, 1197

for salaries, assistant treasurers' of-

fices..

494, 1197

special agents.

497

paper for checks, etc.

497

formints and assay offices.

497, 1199

for government in the Territories. 500, 1202

for Solicitor, clerks, etc..

524, 1225

for civil expenses under..

703, 1364

for public buildings...

703, 1364

for Bureau of Engraving and Printing,

site and new building...

1383

plans, etc., for vault....

1383

closing of D Street SW. for new build-

ing..

707

for automatic fire alarm..

707

for repairs to department buildings.. 708, 1385

for special repairs, etc...

708

for draftsmen, etc., Supervising Archi-

tect's Office...

708, 1386

construction disbursements to be made

from Washington; exception ................. 1387

Treasury Department- Continued.
appropriation for marine hospitals.... for quarantine service .... for Life-Saving Service.. for Revenue-Cutter Service. for Bureau of Engraving...

Page. 710 710
710, 1387 711, 1388 712, 1389

for paperfor stamps, internal revenue . 713, 1390

for refunding collections..

713, 1390

for punishing violations of internal-reve-

nue laws, etc..

713, 1390

detailsfor enforcing laws relating to Dc-

partment authorized from, etc ... 713, 1390

for contingent expenses, Independent

Treasury....

713, 1390

for recoinage, gold and minor coins.. 713, 1390 for expenses, securities, and national cur-

rency .. for expenses, public buildings..

714, 1390 714, 1391

for suppressing counterfeiting, etc... 715, 1392

restriction of employees under...

715

payment for details under Secret Serv-

ice Division, forbidden....

715, 1392

for custody of lands, etc..

715, 1392

for Oscar Shanks.

1392

for collecting customs revenue..

716, 1393

colmipsehnesda.t.i.o.n...of special agents estab- 1393

for automatic scales, customs.

716, 1393

for compensation in lieu of moieties.. 716, 1393

for Public Health and Marine-Hospital

Service..

716, 1393

for quarantine service .. for prevention of epidemics.. for printing and binding for.......

717, 1394 717, 1394 768, 1446

deficiency appropriation for vault rent,

storing emergency currency..

119

for Treasurer's salary..

119

for Deposit Savings Association.

120

for E. J. Reed ..

120

for J. N. Newkirk.

120

for Minneapolis, Saint Paul and Sault

Sainte Marie Railroad Company.

120

for W. E. Bainbridge.....

120

for corporation tax expenses.

120

public buildings...

121,

205, 206, 219, 779, 808, 813, 889, 1320, 1325

for repairs, etc., to building.. for special repairs to building..

121,206 1293

for Smithsonian Institution..

121

for Secretary's office, Loan Division.

204

for Comptroller's office.....

204

for investigation, etc., of records, accounts, and administrative methods. 204

for Treasurer's office...

204,776, 1291

for contingent expenses.. 204, 776, 1320, 1325

for ice-making plant..

204

for distinctive paper, national currency.. 204

for distinctive paper, United States

securities...

204, 1295

for Leigh Bonsal ..

205

for Engraving and Printing Bureau.... 205

for mints and assay offices..

206, 1291

for paying Court of Claims judgments

under..

218,807

for salaries office of Secretary.....

219

for Auditor for State, etc., Departments. 219

for Public Health and Marine-Hospital

Service...... 219, 225, 781, 808, 1295, 1320

for quarantine service.

219, 1320, 1325

for collecting customs revenue..

219,

781,809, 1294, 1320

for Revenue-Cutter Service....

.219,

809, 1320, 1326

for Life-Saving Service...... 219, 809, 813, 1321 for refunding duties on anthracite

coal....

219, 1321

cclxvi

INDEX .

Treasury Department- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for internal revenue...... 219, 225, 780, 809, 1291, 1321, 1326

for transporting fractional silver coin .. 225, 777 for employees on emergency currency... 775 for Bookkeeping and Warrants Division . 776

for credit to Treasurer, deposits with

States ...

776

for stationery .

776

for W. L. Swayze.

776

for John P. Nawrath..

776

for paper for stamps, internal revenue... 777

for transporting minor coin...

777

for loss on recoinage of silver dollars.... 777

for Crane and Company..

777

for refund of excess interest on bank de-

posits ....

778

for refund of internal-revenue taxes; re-

issue of drafts...

778

for credit in Army officers' accounts.. 778

for John Pearing .

779

for W. S. Scott..

779

for Allan L. Briggs.

779

for Henry G. Cole..

779

for John R. M. Taylor.....

779

for Southern Pacific Company..

779

for motor boats, etc., for customs and

shipping service.

781

forJohn Donaldson and Robert E. Hinde. 781

for Samuel L. Barnhart....

781

for salaries, Hawaii..

782

for printing and binding....

879

for compensation in lieu of moieties..

889

for stationery.

889

for commission to investigate issue of

railroad bonds, etc..

1291

for bookbinding materials.

1291

for Independent Treasury.

1292

for paper for checks..

1293

for Albert Champion Company..

1293

for Idaho University...

1295

for Harald Berg..

1295

for Claudius M. Seaman..

1295

for William C. Langfitt.

1295

for heirs of Charles F. Atwood and Ziba

H. Anderson...

1296

for Cooper Walker..

1296

for E. C. Young..

1296

for Phoebe Clark..

1296

for New Hampshire....

1296

chief clerk to be chief executive officer of;

duties.....

1187

certified checks receivable for customs and

internal-revenue taxes..

965

claims of Oregon for volunteers, Indian

wars, to be readjusted, etc ....

1295

construction disbursements for public

buildings to be made by; exception. 1387

contingent expenses to be under control of

specified officials...

776

Engravingand Printing Bureau, newbuild-

ing, plans for electric, etc., equip-

ment, authorized ..

121

proceeds from work by, to be credited

to appropriation for.....

121

Fort Trumbull, Conn., transferred to Reve-

nue-Cutter Service.

906

gold certificates authorized for gold coin, foreign gold coin, and bullion bars. 965

payments to employees on emergency cur-

rency from indefinite appropriation,

legalized.

204

permanent appropriation for parting and

refining bullion repealed; estimates,

etc ..

1292

Treasury Department- Continued.

Page.

time extended for presenting claims for re-

fund of documentary stamp on for-

eign bills of exchange... 120, 779, 1291

transfer of credit to reclamation fund..

835

maximum amount $20,000,000 ..

835

transfer of salaries, Secretary's office, to

Comptroller ofthe Currency..

1290

Treasury Warrants,

Secretary of the Treasury may delegate

Assistants or a clerk to sign ......

231

Treaties, etc., Compilation of, deficiency appropriation for W. M. Malloy for expenses, etc... printing ordered for Department of State of Senate Document No.357 ............

775 1454

Treaty,

commercial reciprocity, with Cuba not

affected by Tarifi Act .....

83

Treaty and Trade Relations, etc.,

appropriation for officers and expenses

connected with .

484, 1186

employment in divisions of State De-

partment, etc.....

484, 1186

Treaty of 1818 with Great Britain,

appropriation for arbitrating North Atlantic

fisheries disputes under....

765

Tred Avon River, Md.,

preliminary examination to be made of. 671, 954 Tree Planting,

appropriation for experiments, etc., in

national forests.....

430, 1252

Trees,

dutyon, nursery or greenhouse stock..

37

on free list, for Department of Agriculture

or Botanic Garden ....

78

Trent River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 641, 938 Trenton, N. J.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, heating apparatus..

1293

terms of court at; trials of civil causes at

Newark...

1119

Tres Palacios River, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 675

Trevino, Eduardo,

deficiency appropriation for.....

801

Tri-State Telephone and Telegraph Company,

may lay lead of wires across Mississippi

River, Morgans Point, Ark., to Rich-

ardson, Tenn ...

586

Trimmings,

duty on, artificial silk or imitation horse-

hair...

60

bead or spangle.

64

cotton, flax, etc..

50

made on Lever or Gothrough machine. 50

silk.

60

tinsel wire, etc ..

30

woolen...

54

Trinidad, Colo. , grant of lands to, for water supply, etc.... rights, etc., reserved ..
Trinity National Forest, Cal.,

1349 1350

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1252 Trinity River, Tex.,
appropriation for improvement of.. 650, 944

for improvement of; open-channel

work

650, 730, 945

forimprovement of locks and dams.... 650

for Lock and Dam No. 7....

650

forlock and dam at White Rock Shoals.. 650

Trinity River, Tex., Old,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

88888

INDEX .

cclxvii

Tripoli, on free list, crude, etc ....

Page. 79

Troches, duty on medicinal, etc. , drugs in......................... 16

Trolley Poles,

duty on..

33

Trophies,

on free list, medals of gold, etc., received

as..

77

Tropical Fruit Plants,

on free list, for cultivation .....

75

Troy Pound, standard, of the Bureau of Standards to be

the authority for coinage......

1354

series of weights conforming to standard,

of Bureau of Standards, required at

mints and assay offices...

1354

Truck Crops, etc., appropriation for investigating insects

affecting..... Truffles,
duty on, prepared, etc .. Trussesfor Disabled Soldiers,
appropriation for...........

423, 1257 36
731, 1407

Trust Allotments to Indians (see Lands in

Severalty to Indians). Trust Combinations, etc.,

purchases of armor and armament for ships of the Navy from, forbidden......... 1288

Truxton Canyon, Ariz.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 273, 1062 Tuberculins, Serums, etc. ,

appropriation for purchase, etc., of, for treating diseases of animals...... 420, 1239
Tuberculosis,

appropriation for prevention, etc., among

Indians....

271, 1059

aliens afflicted with, excluded admission.. 263

Tuberculosis Congress, International, deficiency appropriation for expenses..... 781
Tuberculosis, D. C.,

appropriation for registering cases, pre-

venting contagion, etc...

402, 993

Tuberculosis, etc., in Domestic Animals,

appropriation for preventing spread of, from one State to another... 420, 1239

Tuberculosis Hospital, D. C., appropriation for maintenance..
for mortuary... deficiency appropriation for... .....
for contingent expenses..
Tubes,

408, 999 408 1298 787

duty on, filter....

19

flexible metal..

26

for umbrellas..

29

welded, seamed, or jointed ..

26

iron or steel, not specially provided for.. 26

plate metal,reenforced ....

26

Tubing,

duty on, cotton, etc., and india rubber... 48

Bilk...

60

Tucker Act,

jurisdiction of district courts in claims

under.....

1093

proceedings in Court of Claims in matters

transmitted by Congress under ..... 1138

repealed by Judicial Code.....

1168

Tucker Act Claims,

proceedings in Court of Claims under,

report of facts, etc.....

837

conclusions of court as to character of

demand and amount due to be re-

ported.....

838

Tuckerton Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 637,936

Tuckings, duty on, cotton, flax, etc.....
Tucson, Ariz. ,
appropriation for public building...... acquiring site for public building at, au-
thorized ...

Page. 50
1383
688

Tug Fork, Big Sandy River, W. Va. and Ky.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

730

Lock and Dam No. 1 ..

652, 730

Lock and Dam No. 2.

652

bridge authorized across, Warfield, Ky.

230

time extended for bridging, Nolan, W. Va. 198

Tug River, bridge authorized across, Thacker, W. Va. 197

Tugaloo River, Ga. and S. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 954

Tugs, Navy Seagoing,

construction of two, authorized ; cost.... 1387

Tulip Bulbs,

duty on.

36

Tulsa, Okla.,

construction of public building author-

ized at.

683

terms of court at.

1122

Tungsten,

duty on.

30

ores bearing...

31

Tuning Forks and Tuning Hammers,

duty on.

70

Tupelo, Miss.,

appropriation for public building..

1383

acquiring site, and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized .

686

Turin, Italy,

appropriation for participating in exposition of industry and labor at....... 345

Turkey, appropriation for ambassador to.. for secretary of embassy..
for interpreter to embassy for second secretary . for third secretary..
for student interpreters. for cost of tuition....

337, 1027 337, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1028 338, 1029 339, 1029

for quarters for student interpreters .. 339, 1030 for steam launch for embassy.... 340, 1030

for interpreters and guards at consulates

in...

346, 1035

for marshals, consular courts..

346, 1035

for expenses of American prisoners... 346, 1035

for rent of prison...

346, 1036

Turmeric,

on free list....

80

Turnip Seed,

duty on.

37

Turpentine,

on free list, spirits of..

80

Venice....

80

Turpentine Industry, census inquiries as to..

4, 228

Turrelsfor Coast Defense, Army Land,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc., insular possessions ....

599

Turrets, Ships ofthe Navy,

appropriation for modernizing, etc.; ships

excluded...

611

for equipments for ammunition, supply,

etc ..

611

Turtle Bay, Tex. ,

construction of dam authorized across

mouth of...

828

Turtle Bayou, Tex.,, appropriation for improvement of...... 650, 944
Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians,

N. Dak., appropriation for support, etc. , of..... 279, 1068

cclxviii

INDEX .

Turtles,

Page.

on free list...

80

Tusayan National Forest, Ariz. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1252

Tuscaloosa, Ala. ,

terms of court at..

1106

Tutuila, Samoa,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion ......

1276

customs tariff schedules not applicable to.. 11

Twenty-fifth Infantry, Companies B, C, andD,

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

court of inquiry.

122

for extra pay to board on eligibility of discharged men for reenlistment... 122

Twenty-third Street NW. , D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending.

784

north of Calvert Street designated Woodley

Place...

240

Twenty-third Street SE., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing...

232

appropriation for expenses .

232

Twin Falls, Idaho,

appropriation for public building.....

1383

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

689

Twin River Point Light-House, Wis.,

telephone service directed between Two

Rivers life-saving station and...

194

Twine and Tying Devices, Postal Service,



appropriation for.....

366, 1338

Turnes,

duty on, flax, hemp, or ramie....

49

on free list, binding.....

73

Twist, Silk,

duty on.

57

Twitch Cove, Md.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 671

Two Rivers Life-Saving Station, Wis., telephone service directed between Twin

River Point light-house and............. 194

Two Rivers, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 657

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made...

676

Tyaskin Creek, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 639, 937

Tyler, President John,

monument to be erected over grave of,

Richmond, Va.; cost .

1345

Tyler, Tex.,

terms of court at..

1126

Type Metal,

duty on .

31

Types,

duty on.

31

on free list, old, fit only for remanufacture. 80

Typesetting Machines,

duty on.

32

Typewriter Paper, duty on.

63

Typewriters,

duty on.

32

Typhus Fever,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic.. 717, 1394

U.

U Street NW., D. C., part of, between Florida Avenue and Nineteenth Street to be known as Vernon

Street...

385

Uinta National Forest, Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1252

Uintah and Ouray Agency, Utah,

Page.

appropriation for Indian agent at...... 284, 1073

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah,

appropriation for paying Uintah Indians

from irrigation fund for lands taken

for Strawberry Valley project from former
disposition of, etc. desert lands in former, open to selection by
Utah under Carey Act.. grant of school lot, etc., on former, to Utah;
conditions ..

285 285
285
1074 .

patents to issue to settlers on, deprived by

lack of water from maintaining resi-

dence; payment required ......

1074

Uintah Indians, Viah,

appropriation for paying from reclamation

funds for lands taken for Strawberry

Valley project ...

285

disposition of.

285

rights of Indians extinguished.

285

for irrigating allotted lands of...... 285, 1074 Ultramarine Blue,

duty on.

15

Umatilla Indians, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. Umatilla National Forest, Oreg.,

283, 1071

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1252

Umber and Umber Earths,

duty on, ground in oil or water.

15

not specially provided for....

15

powdered, etc..

15

Umbrella Ribs and Stretchers,

FE2R3D42

duty on iron, etc..

29

Umbrellas,

duty on.

71

sticks for....

71

tubes for..

29

on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for... 81

Umpqua National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1252

Umpqua River, Oreg.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 674

Unavailable Funds, Treasurer's Office,

credit to Treasurer's account for.

1291

Uncompahgre Indians, Utah,

appropriation for irrigating allotted lands

of....

285, 1074

Uncompahre National Forest, Colo. , appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 429, 1252
Undertakings, etc., Surety,

authority of Secretary of the Treasury

respecting, of security, etc., com-

panies..

241

Underwear,

duty on cotton, etc.

48

Underwood, Leonard,

deficiency appropriation for services... 803, 1316

Underwriters,

recognized as consignee of abandoned im-

ports....

91

rights of, to abandoned imports, not affected by repeal provisions of Tariff Act... 105
Unexpended Balances of Appropriations, for essential river and harbor works not to

be covered in; condition...

182

Uniforms ofthe United States,

penalty for discriminations by theaters,

etc., against wearers of...

963

Union Agency, Okla.,,

appropriation for Indian superintendent

at.

281

for town-site expenses.

281

Union Army or Navy,

census inquiries to be made ofsurvivors of.. 4

INDEX .

cclxix

Union City, Tenn.,

Page.

appropriation for public building........ 1383

Union, N. J.,.

to maintain improvement of Double

Creek....

637

Union Railroad and Dock Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Morgan-

town, W. Va....

195

Union Railroad Station, D. C.,

appropriation for purchase of lands, chang-

ing grades, etc..

383

area for flagstaffs for Plaza, changed...

383

avenue from Peace Monument to, author-

ized ....

738

land for widening First Street east transfer-

red to Commissioners ..

383

Union River, Me.,

removal of obstructive bowlders, etc., in

channel....

1301

Union, S. C.,

appropriation for public building....... 1383

limit of cost increased, public building.. 679

Union Suits,

duty on cotton, etc..

48

United Kingdom (see Great Britain). United States Court for China,

appropriation for salaries and expenses. 345, 1033

appellate proceedings from, to be heard in

ninth circuit court of appeals...

1134

United States Court of Customs Appeals (see

Customs Appeals, Court of).

United States Courts (see also Judicial Code),

appropriation for Chief and associate

justices, Supreme Court ..

529, 1232

for marshal Supreme Court..

529, 1232

for clerks to justices...

529, 1232

for circuit judges..

529, 1233

for circuit courts of appeals, clerks.. 529, 1233

for messenger, etc., eighth circuit... 529, 1233

for district judges..

529, 1233

for district court, Hawaii..

529, 1233

for retired judges............

529, 1233

for court of appeals, D. C......

529, 1233

for Supreme Court, D. C...

529, 1233

for clerk, Illinois northern district ... 529, 1233

for stenographer, Illinois eastern dis-

trict..

1233

for commissioner, Yellowstone Park.. 529, 1233

for law books, etc., circuit courts of

appeals..... judicial officers...

530, 1233 1234, 1419

for Court of Customs Appeals.. for Commerce Court ...

530, 1234 1234

for Court of Claims..

530, 1234

for salaries, etc., marshals; advances . 749, 1426

for additional pay to Chief Justice, etc.. 1426

for salaries, etc., district attorneys and

assistants..

749, 1426

salaries established of New Jersey and

Nevada district attorneys..

1426

for fees, district attorney, D. C..... 750, 1426

allowance for office expenses...

1426

for payment to regular assistant
neys... for special assistants..
employment of foreign counsel .. for fees, clerks.....
commissioners .. jurors ...... witnesses.. for rent of court rooms..
for bailiffs, etc..... for expenses, judges, etc.. for jury commissioners.. for miscellaneous ; Alaska..

attor750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1426 750, 1427 750, 1427 750, 1427 750, 1427
750, 1427

United States Courts- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for bust of Chief Justice

Fuller .

1427

for oil portrait of Chief Justice Fuller.... 1427

for supplies..

750, 1427

for support of prisoners...

750, 1427

for penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kans. 751, 1427

Atlanta, Ga...

752, 1428

McNeil Island, Wash..

753, 1429

for National Training School for Boys,

D. C.....

... 753, 1429

deficiency appropriation for attorneys in

special cases..

125

for judge, Alabama northern district.. 125

for miscellaneous expenses .

125,

214,799, 812, 1311, 1325

for clerical assistance to clerks, in natu-

ralization cases.......

126

for paying judgment of, to J. Henry

Harper.....

128

for special assistant attorneys..

215,799

for support of prisoners..

215, 224, 1325

for supplies....

215, 799,812, 1312, 1325

for penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kans... 215

for payment ofjudgments.....

217, 1319

for marshals...

224, 799, 812, 1324

for fees, clerks.

224

227,799, 812, 814, 1311, 1324, 1327

for fees, commissioners..

224,812, 1325

for witness fees...

224, 1311, 1325

for books for judges, etc..

798

for widow of Justice Brewer..

799

for additional judges, Maryland Ohio northern and southern tricts..
for district attorneys....... for fees, jurors.. for Commerce Court.....

and dis-
799
799, 1311 812 890

for district judge, New York eastern

district ...

890

for law books, for circuit courts of ap-

peals....

1311

Arizona district created .

576

Arkansas western district, transfer of cer-

tain criminal cases to Fort Smith

division; costs..

233

Georgia southern district, Ben Hill

County attached to Albany division. 181

Idaho district, divisions altered; terms.... 927

Louisiana eastern district, marshal's salary

increased.

838

Maryland. additional district judge au-

thorized.

201

Missouri eastern district, Maries County

transferred from western to...

897

Oregon County detached from..

370

Missouri western district, Oregon County

attached to...

370

Nebraska judicial district, issues of fact to

be tried in division where defendant

resides...

294

New Mexico district created .

565

New York eastern district, additional judge

authorized...

838.

New York southern district, terms for

criminal cases changed .

232

Ohio northern district, additional judge

authorized..

202

Ohio southern district, additional judge

authorized..

202

Texas, salaries of district attorneys and

marshals made uniform .

828

appeals, provisions for diminishing. `ex-

penses of proceedings on..

901

bankruptcy act amendments....

838

cclxx

INDEX .

United States Courts-Continued.

Page.

certiorari, provisions for diminishing expenses of proceedings on writs of... 901

circuit courts, jurisdiction in actions for in-

juries to railway employees....

291

circuit courts of appeals, deputy clerks

allowed ....

895

Commerce Court created ; functions, etc.. 539

provisions in Judicial Code.....

1146-1151

Court of Customs Appeals created; juris-

diction, etc....

105

provisions in Judicial Code.... ... 1143-1146

customs cases pending in other, transferred to Court of Customs Appeals...... 1145

district attorneys to report to Solicitor of

the Treasury suits in which United

States is a party..

294

district judges, additional, authorized for

Maryland ...

201

New York eastern district..

838

Ohio northern district...

202

Ohio southern district...

202

expediting antitrust and interstate- com-

merce cases; composition of court,

etc ..

854

grand juries, summoning ofsecond, allowed

for large cities..

267

immunity in criminal proceedings, of pleadings, disclosures, etc., repealed 352

jurisdiction in securing information for cor-

poration-tax assessments...

117

under White Slave Traffic Act..

826

marshals and chief office deputies may ad-

minister oaths to accounts..

927

marshals, field deputies, appointment,

compensation, etc..

1355

money in registry of court, unclaimed for

five years to be deposited in the

Treasury..

1083

permanent appropriation for paying, on

order of the court..

1084

naturalization cases, allowance to clerks

for additional assistance..

830

parole of prisoners under sentence of.

819

poor persons relieved from prepayment of

fees and costs ...

866

writs of error, provisions for diminishing expenses of proceedings on...
terms established , Arizona.. Boise City, Idaho . Chadron, Nebr.. Charlotte, N. C.... Chillicothe, Mo... Clarksburg, W. Va... Clarksdale, Miss...
Coeur d'Alene City, Idaho. Grand Island, Nebr.. Greensboro, N. C... Hastings, Nebr... Jonesboro, Aik. Lincoln, Nebr.... McCook, Nebr.....
Martinsburg, W. Va.. Moscow, Idaho.... New Mexico .
Norfolk, Nebr.. North Platte, Nebr.. Omaha, Nebr .. Parkersburg, W. Va.. Philippi, W. Va... Pocatello, Idaho.. Rolla, Mo..
Sacramento, Cal.. San Diego, Cal. Wheeling, W. Va.. Wilmington, Del.. Woodward, Okla.

901 576 928 294. 186 587 1014 932 928 294 186 294 603 294 294 1014 928 565 294 294 294 1014 1014 928 585 589 589 1014 466 825

United States Securities (see Securities, United Page.

States). Universal Peace,
commission in relation to, authorized;
scope......
limit to expenditures; report... Unjust Discriminations by Common Carriers,
Commerce Court to hear suits to prevent.. Unlawful Restraints of Commerce (see Anti-
trust Cases).

885 885
1148

Unwrought Metals, duty on, not specially provided for................... 30 .
Upholstery Goods, duty on cotton, etc., Jacquard figured .... 47

Upper Machodoc Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 640, 938

Uppers, Leather Shoe,

duty on.......

68 .

Uranium,

or free list, oxide and salts of..................................... 80 Urbana Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of................... 640, 938

Urbana, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1383

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized........

685

Urbana, Ohio,

appropriation for public building....... 1383

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

691

Urgent Deficiency Appropriations (see Deficiency Appropriations).

Uruguay, Paraguay and, appropriation for minister to.... for secretary of legation.............
Utah,

337, 1027 338, 1028

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc ..

518, 1220

for surveying certain townships in............. 741

for surveys, Garfield, Iron, Kane, San

Juan, and Washington Counties.. 741, 1417

for maintenance, etc., of detached In-

dians in Skull Valley, etc....

1073

deficiency appropriation for surveying pub-

lic lands in certain counties..

1307

forincidental expenses, Indian service in 1327

assigned to eighth judicial circuit..

1131

desert lands reserved in Millard County for

reservoirs, restored to entry, under

public land laws..

932

grant of Indian school lot, etc., on former Uintah Indian Reservation to; con-

ditions....

1074

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended ...

904

leave of absence allowed..

904

may select lands in former Uintah Indian Reservation, under Carey Act ............... 285
Utah Judicial District,

counties composing northern division.... central division .
terms of court..

1127 1127 1127

Ute Indians, Confederated Bands in Utah,

appropriation forfulfillingtreaties with. 284, 1073 deficiency appropriation for support, etc.. 1323

Utensils, Table, Kitchen, or Hospital,

duty oniron orsteel enameled, etc. , hollow

ware ..

28

Utica, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building................... 1383

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .....

691

terms of court at..

1119

Uvalde, Tex.,

appropriation for public building..

1383

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

688

INDEX .

cclxxi

2205

V.

Page. Veal,

duty on fresh ...

Page. 38

Vaccination ofIndians, appropriation for.......

Vegetable Extracts, 271, 1059 duty on, suitable for dyeing, etc. , not con-

Vaccine Virus,

taining alcohol and not medicinal.. 14

on free list...

80 Vegetable Ivory,

Valdosta, Ga., terms ofcourt at..

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

1109

vided for....

70

Vale, H. A.,

on free list, in natural state.....

76

deficiency appropriation for service to com-

Vegetable Knives,

mission onenlarging Capitol Grounds 1307 duty on.....

27

Vale LandDistrict, Oreg.,

Vegetable Substances,

created; boundaries ..

238 on free list, crude or unmanufactured, not

plats, etc., from Burns and La Grande

otherwise provided for.........................

77

offices to be transferred .

238 Vegetable Wax,

register and receiver authorized.

238 on free list...

80

1880 22 5 8 2 2 88 10 15 55 8

Valerian, on free list, oil................
Valerianic Acid, on free list..
Valley City, N. Dak., appropriation for public building..

Vegetables, 77 duty on, articles immersed in alcohol, not

specially provided for............

12

71

drugs, not edible..

13

in their natural state, not specially pro-

1383

vided for.....

37

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized....

691

prepfaorre.d.., .edible, not specially provided 36

Valley County, Mont.,

on free list, crude, not edible, drugs, not

appropriation for surveying public lands

specially provided for............

75

in....

741 Veils,

Valley Forge, Pa.,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc...

50

appropriation for erection of memorial

cotton, silk, etc., made on Lever or Goth-

arch..

1402

rough machine....

50

expenditure authorized for memorial arch

silk.

60

in park.

822 Vellum,

location, plans, etc., to be approved by

on free list..

78

Secretary of War...

822 Velvet Carpets,

care, etc., by park commission...

822 duty on...

55

Valonia,

tapestry.

55

on free list......

80 Velvets and Velveteens,

Value,

duty on, cotton, etc..

47

meaning of, in Tariff Act ....

101

silk, not specially provided for....

57

Vamps, Leather Shoe,

Velvets, Silk,

duty on...

68 distinction between plushes and............................... 57

Van Buren, Ark.,

Veneers ofWood,

bridge authorized across Arkansas River

duty on, not specially provided for..............

33

between Fort Smith and.....

229 Venetian Chain Carpets,

Van Buren, Me.,

duty on..

55

bridge authorized across Saint John River

to Saint Leonards, New Brunswick,

from.

904

Van Buren Street NW., D. C.,

condemning land for extending.....

1078

appropriation for expenses, etc.....

1078

Van Voorhis, Harold S. G.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 127

Vance, J. W., et al.,

may dam James River, Mo. , in the Big

Bend...

929

88888888

Venezuela, appropriation for minister to..
for secretary of legation.............. Venice Turpentine,
on free list...

.... 337, 1027 .338, 1028
80

Venison,

duty on....

38

Ventilation Facilities,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce ..

545

Venue of Federal Actions, etc.,

Vancouver, Wash. ,

appropriation for public building...

1383

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

692

Vanillin,

provisions of Judicial Code relating to .... 1100

Verdigris,

on free list.....

80

Vermicelli, etc.,

duty on..

35

7 8 33 800

duty on...

17 Vermilion, Ohio,

Varnished Leather,

appropriation for improvement of.....

653

duty on.... Varnishes,

68 preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made...

674

duty on, including gold size or japan............. 15 Vermilion Reds,

enamel paints made with..... spirit...

15 duty on, containing quicksilver..

15

15

containing lead ....

15

Vases,

Vermont,

duty on, china, etc., decorated, etc......

18 assigned to second judicial circuit.................... 1131

china, etc., not decorated , etc.....

18 Vermont Judicial District,

marble, etc..

21 terms of court...

1127

on free list, platinum, for chemical uses... 78 Vermuth,

Vaults, Safes, and Locks, Public Buildings,

duty on..

40

appropriation for, and repairs..

708, 1385 Vernon Street NW., D. C.,

for electrical protection to....

708, 1385 partofUstreetbetween Florida Avenueand

' deficiency appropriation for.

208, 1293

Nineteenth Street to be known as.. 385

cclxxii

INDEX .

Vessels,

Page.

duty on, cast-iron..

26

2108803

cylindrical or tubular, for gas, liquids,

etc..

26

on free list, adhesive sheathing felt for...

75

platinum, for chemical uses..

78

abandoned merchandise from sunken, in

American waters, may be brought in

free of duty....

88

drawbacks allowed on imported materials

used in building, for foreign ac-

count...

90

foreign war, may purchase supplies free of

tax, from bonded, and bonded man-

ufacturing warehouses..

88

maritime lien allowed on foreign or domes

tic, for repairs, supplies, etc..

604

materials for construction, etc., of, in for-

eign trade, admitted free in bond... 88

restriction on coastwise trade.....

88

if for foreign account, not allowed in

coastwise trade...

88

special licenses for lading and unlading

cargo at night..

899

preliminary entry to boarding officer, oath,

etc ..

900

lading and unlading allowed on arrival.: 900

bond required; licenses and permits..

900

extra pay to inspectors, etc., for night

work..

901

boarding officers allowed extra for services

at night, etc......

901

wireless-telegraph apparatus required on

ocean-going steam...

629

Vessels, American (see also American Ves-

sels),

on free list, coal stores for; not to be un-

loaded..

74

Vessels, Foreign (see Foreign Vessels).

Vessels in River and Harbor Work,

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

for damages by......

1301

damages from collisions by, to be paid for;

limit.

676

Vessels, Naval, deficiency appropriation for paying claims for damages from collisions with.... 1302

Vessels not in Trade (see Yachts). Vessels of the United States (see American
Vessels).

Vests,

duty on cotton, etc.....

48

Veterinarians, Army,

appropriation for pay; longevity....... 249, 1042

retirement authorized..

1042

Vials, duty on, glass, ecorated, etc.
glass, plain.. Vice-President of United States,
appropriation for compensation .. for secretary, messenger, etc.....

19 19
482, 1184 468, 1170

deficiency appropriation for purchase, etc.,

automobile for..

127, 217

duties of, extending Capitol Grounds to

Union Station ...

738

to appoint three Senators on commission to

Mexican centennial celebration.... 882

two Senators on commission to investi-

gate employer's liability and work-

man's compensation...

884

Vicksburg, Miss.,

appropriation for public building......

1383

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

679

terms of court at..

1116

Vicksburg, Miss., National Cemetery, right of way granted over road to...

Page. 926

Vicksburg National Military Park, Miss.,

appropriation for continuing establish-

ment of.....

725, 1401

for memorial to Union Navy

725

Victoria, Tex.,

appropriation for public building...

1383

terms of court at..

1127

Views of United States Scenery, etc.,

duty on lithographically printed post cards

of, etc ...

64

former rate effective until October 1,

1909, on previous orders.....

64

Vinalhaven, Me., preliminary examination to be made of Carvers Harbor.....
Vinegar, duty on...
Vines,
duty on, nursery or greenhouse stock ..... Vinita, Okla.,
terms of court at...

953, 39 37 1122

Violin Rosin,

duty on...

70

Virginia,

appropriation for improvement of water-

ways on coast of.

640

assigned to fourth judicial circuit..

1131

Virginia Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing..

1128

terms of court..

1128

Virginia Iron, Coal and Coke Company, may dam New River, near Foster Falls, Va. 921

" Virginia," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.

1280

Virginia Western Judicial District,

counties composing.

1128

terms of court.

1128

Vitriol, Blue,

duty on.

12

Vladivostok, Siberia,

appropriation for interpreter at consu-

late....

346, 1035

Voluntary Bankruptcy,

persons entitled to..

839

municipal, railroad, insurance, or bank-

ing corporations excepted .

839

Volunteer Soldiers' Home (see National Home

for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers).

Volunteers,

appropriation for back pay, bounty, and

commutation of rations...

736, 1413

for arrears ofpay, war with Spain, etc. 737, 1413 deficiency appropriation for refund to

States, expenses of raising....... £20, 809

for pay, etc., Oregon and Washington... 220, 225, 809, 813

claim of Oregon for raising, etc. , 1861 to

1865, to be reopened....

777

date of muster of, decision of Department

as to, conclusive..

324

von Steuben, General Baron,

appropriation for unveiling, etc., statue of. 728

for replica of, for presentation to German

Emperor..

886

replica of, authorized for presentation to

Germany.

605

Vulcanized India Rubber,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for...

70

70

W.
WStreet NW., D. C., deficiency appropriation for extending.... 784

INDEX .

cclxxiii

Waadah Island, Wash.,

Page.

completion ofstorehouse, from unexpended

appropriation; balance to be covered

in..

712

"Waban," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs..

621

Wabash, Ind.,

appropriation for public building....

1383

limit of cost increased, public building... 677

Wabash River,

bridge authorized across,Mount Carmel,Ill . 300

Saint Francisville, Ill..

292

Wabash River, Ind. and Ill.,

preliminary examination of, to Terre

Haute, to be made....

671

Waccamaw River, N. C. and S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

643

bridges authorized across, at Starr Bluff,

and Conway, S. C...

179

time extended for bridging, at Conway,

S. C......

906

Star Bluff, S. C......

906

Waco, Tex.,

terms of court at.

1126

Wadsworth, James W.,

reappointed on Board of Managers, Volun-

8888888

teer Soldiers' Home.....

876

Wafers, etc. ,

duty on, edible, not specially provided for. 36

sweetened, etc...

36

on free list, unleavened or not edible..

80

Wagon Blocks,.

duty on, rough hewn, etc.......

33

Wagon Service, Mail, appropriation for...........

360, 1334

Wahoo, Nebr.,

appropriation for public building.

1383

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized .

690

Wahpeton, N. Dak., appropriation for Indian school ...
payment for water...... for public building..

279, 1068 279 1383

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

687

Wakefield, F. H.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 804, 1316

Wakefield, Va.,

appropriation for watchman, monument

and dock at..

505, 1207

for maintaining grounds, Washington's

birthplace...

728, 1405

Waldron, Captain A. E.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts...

778

Walker, Cooper,

deficiency appropriation for..

1296

Walker, John H.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 803, 1316

Walker River Indian Reservation, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

on...

278,1067

Walking Canes,

duty on.

71

on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for .

81

Wall Paper,

duty on.

63

Wall, W. A., act of Hawaii legislature authorizing operation of railroad by, ratified ...... 845
Walla Walla Indians, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc.......... 283, 1071

Walla Walla, Wash.,

appropriation for public building...... 1383

terms of court at.

1128

88740°-Vol 36, T 1-11-111

Wallingford, Conn.,

Page.

appropriation for public building.

1383 ·

limit of cost increased, public building.... 677

Wallowa National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1252

Walnuts,

duty on.

38

Walrus Island, Alaska,

made a special government reservation.... 327

punishment for illegal landing on, etc... 327

Walsh, William H.,

may be appointed ensign on retired list,

Navy.

1079

Walter, Judson, S.,.

deficiency appropriation for.

801

Walter Reed Army General Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for constructing quarters for

nurses ..

258

Waltham, Mass.,

appropriation for public building..

1383

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

686

Wapato Irrigation Company,

sale of portion of two Indian allotments to,

for completion of irrigation project

in Chelan County, Wash....

1358

Wappinger Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 636 War Balloons,

appropriation for........... War College, Army,
appropriation for expenses . for maintenance...

245, 1038
243, 1037 258, 1053

War College, Naval, appropriation for maintenance......... 609, 1269
War Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant, assistant and chief clerk, clerks,

etc.....

501, 1203

for clerks, etc., Adjutant-General's

Office..

501, 1203

Inspector-General's Office.

502, 1204

Judge-Advocate-General's Office... 502, 1204

Signal Office

502, 1204

Quartermaster-General's Office .... 502, 1204

Commissary-General's Office....... 502, 1201

Surgeon-General's Office..

502, 1205

Paymaster-General's Office... 503, 1205 Office of Chief of Ordnance.... .... 503, 1205

Office of Chief of Engineers....... 503, 1205

authority for outside assistants re-

pealed...

503

Bureau of Insular Affairs. ...... 503, 1206

Division of Militia Affairs.

1206

for contingent expenses....... for rent.

504, 1206 504, 1206

for public buildings and grounds, clerks,

engineers, watchmen, etc...

504, 1207

for State, War, and Navy Department

building, clerks, engineers, watch-

men, etc....

505, 1207

rewiring, etc., electric circuits..

505

for civil expenses under...

720, 1397

for armories and arsenals .

720, 1397

for military posts..

721, 1398

Hawaii and the Philippines.....

1398

for military prison.....

722

for Fort Monroe, Va..

722, 1399

acceptance of land; Fort Hancock, N. J. 722

for rifle range, Nebraska .

722

for national cemeteries. etc....

722, 1399

for disposition of remains of officers, soldiers, civilian employees, etc... 723, 1400
for driveway, War Department Branch Government Printing Office........ 724

cclxxiv

INDEX .

War Department- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for care of insane soldiers,

Porto Rico ...

724

for national parks... for Valley Forge Memorial..

724, 1401 1402

for Guilford Courthouse Monument.

1402

for buildings and grounds, Washington,

D. C....

725, 1402

for Executive Mansion..

726, 1404

for traveling expenses of the Presi-

dent...

727, 1404

for Grant Memorial.

728

for unveiling statue to John Paul Jones. 1404

for Washington Monument.....

728, 1404

for repairs, Lincoln's death place... 728, 1405

for Wakefield, Va.

728, 1405

for von Steuben statue.

728

for Commission of Fine Arts..

728, 1405

officer in charge of buildings and

grounds, to be secretary, etc.

728

for rivers and harbors, contract work. 728, 1405

for maps...

730, 1406

for survey of northern and northwestern

lakes ....

730, 1407

for California Débris Commission . 730, 1407

for New York Harbor....

730, 1407

for International Waterways Commis-

sion ....

730, 1407

for Fort Snelling, Minn., bridge.

730

for raising battleship "Maine'

1407

for artificial limbs..

731, 1407

for appliances for disabled soldiers... 731, 1407

for trusses.

731, 1407

for Army Medical Museum, repairs............. 1407

for Providence Hospital, D. C........ 731, 1407

for Garfield Hospital, D. C..

731, 1408

for Children's Hospital, D. C.

731, 1408

for National Home for Disabled Volun-

teer Soldiers.

732, 1408

disposal of property of decedents, leav-

ing no will, etc..

736

conditions of membership..

736

for aid to State and Territorial homes. 736, 1413

for back pay, bounty, and commutation

of rations.

736, 1413

for arrearsof pay, War with Spain, etc._737, 1413

for ice plant, State, War, and Navy De-

partment Building.

737

for printing and binding for.

768, 1446

for Army....

243, 1037

for Military Academy.

312, 1015

for river and harbor improvements..

630,

728, 933, 1405

for fortifications.....

596, 1343

for monument to Generals James Screven

and Daniel Stewart.

1352

deficiency appropriation for Gettysburg

National Park..

122

for Army.......

122, 210, 220, 225, 789,

809, 813, 1300, 1321, 1326

for Pulaski Monument..

209

for Kosciuszko Monument..

209

for Volunteer Soldiers' Homes..

211,

220, 1301, 1321

for aid to State or Territorial Homes.. 211, 1301

for Isthmian Canal..

211

for paying judgments, United States

courts, under..

217

for paying Court of Claims judgments,

under...

218,807, 1319

for headstones for soldiers' graves..

220,

225, 809, 1321, 1326

for burial of indigent soldiers...

220

for California Débris Commission .

220

for claims for horses, etc...

220

War Department- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for Rogue Indian

War....

220

for refund to States raising volunteers... 220, 809, 1321

for pay, etc., Oregon and Washington

volunteers...

220, 225, 809, 813

for State, War, and Navy Department

Building.

788

for Shiloh Park..

788

for Salisbury, N. C., national cemetery.. 788

forraising wreck ofbattleship "Maine". 789

for William Rydmark.

789

for dam , Muskingum River. .....

789

for Mexican hostilities....

809, 1326

for Broadway Bargain House.

889

for river and harbor work, damages to

vessels, etc..

1301

for Indiana Harbor, Ind., inner harbor

maintenance...

1301

for Military Academy.

1302

for bringing home remains ofofficers, etc. 1321

for Pennsylvania militia claims....

1321

graves of Confederate soldiers and sailors,

time extended for marking...... 875, 1453

Oakwood Cemetery, Ill., included..

882

central monuments authorized..............

1453

War with Spain, etc.,

appropriation for arrears of pay, etc.... 737, 1413

accounts of volunteer naval officers, to be

reopened ......

1266

discharges in true name allowed to minors

serving under assumed in....

824

Warehouse Receipts, D. C.,

issued by warehousemen..

301

form; essential terms.

301

liability for omissions...

301

additional terms..

301

definitions; negotiable; nonnegotiable..

301

duplicate, to be so marked; liability for

failure....

302

liability for nonnegotiable, not marked.

302

delivery ofgoods on; parties entitled; mis-

deliveries, etc..

302

cancellation of negotiable, on delivery of

goods; in part...

303

effect of alterations in.

303

delivery on lost or destroyed..

303

effect of duplicate..

304

title of warehouseman excusing delivery

on...

304

determination of rights of adverse claim-

ants to goods....

304

liability of warehouseman for care, etc. , of

goods..

304

goods exempt from levy without surrender

of...

305

creditors' remedies to reach negotiable.... 305

lien of warehouseman on goods, extent and

effect...

305

procedure to recover under.

306

perishable and hazardous goods..

307

other remedies..

307

effect of sale.

307

negotiation of negotiable; by delivery.

307

by indorsement.

307

transfer of nonnegotiable..

307

parties who may negotiate...

308

rights of receiver; of transferree..

308

notice to warehouseman, conditions prior

to....

308

transfer of negotiable, without indorse-

ment...

308

warranties on sale of....

308

indorser not guarantor..

308

INDEX .

cclxxv

Warehouse Receipts, D. C.-Continued.

Page.

warranty of, not implied from accepting in

payment of debt.....

309

rights of innocent holder of, not impaired,

though negotiated by fraud, etc.

309

by prior negotiation..

309

vendor's lien defeated by sale of negotia-

ble..

309

punishment for issuing, for goods not re-

ceived ...

309

for issuing, containing false statements.. 309

for issuing duplicate, not so marked.

309

for issuing, of warehouseman's goods not

stating that fact..

310

for delivering goods without obtaining

negotiable..

310

for negotiating, for mortgaged goods .

310

common-law rules still applicable.

310

uniformity of interpretation directed ...

310

definition of words and phrases..

310

prior receipts not affected...

311

inconsistent laws repealed ; effect; title... 311

Warehouses, Bonded,

articles torepairAmerican vessels in foreign

trade may be withdrawn from, free of

duty...

88

purchase of supplies from, free of tax, per-

mitted foreign war vessels.....

88

Warehouses, Bonded Manufacturing, articles imported, or subject to internal-

revenue tax, may be made in, for

export, free of tax..

88

bond required...

88

distilled spirits excluded .

88

finished product exempt from duty, etc.,

when exported ..

89

transfer ofmaterials permitted without tax. 89

machinery excepted ...

89

supervision of removals..

89

waste product, etc., subject to tax.

89

accounts and returns required .......

89

list of articles to be manufactured, etc.

89

transfers for exportation...

89

general rules applicable..

89

purchase of supplies from, free of tax, per-

mitted foreign war vessels..

88

reimported articles made in, subject to

original duty......

90

proof of identity.

91

Warehouses, Bonded Smelting,

ores and metals admitted without paying

duty to smelting works on becoming. 89

transfer of lead for export, or to bonded

manufacturing warehouses...

.90

payment ofduty on withdrawals for domes-

tic consumption......

90

supervision, regulations, etc.

90

Warehouses, Customs Bonded,

goods in, to pay duty at rate in force when

withdrawn...

101

disposal of perishable or explosive articles.. 101

Wares,

duty on metallic, not specially provided

for.....

33

Warfield, Ky.,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork, Big

Sandy River, at...........

230

Warm Springs Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

282, 1071

Warmouth, Henry C.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses.

1317

Warner, Lee F., deficiency appropriation for services................ 803

8888

Warrants, Treasury,

Page.

Secretary of the Treasury may delegate As-

sistants or a clerk to sign....

231

Warren, R. I.,

may bridge Palmers or Warren River..... 300

Warren River,

bridge authorized across, between Warren

and Barrington, R. I....

300

Warrenton, Va.,

appropriation for public building...........

1383

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

692

Warrior River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts..

646, 942

forimprovement of, locks and dams.. 729, 1406

Warroad Harbor, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of.......

657

post lantern lights authorized in.

534

Warwick River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 639, 937 Wasatch National Forest, Utah,

appropriation for maintenance, etc, of.. 429, 1252 Wash Blue,

duty on, containing ultra-marine............

15

Washakie National Forest, Wyo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.... 1252

Washers,

duty on wrought-iron or steel.................

28

Washington,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc..

518, 1220

deficiency appropriation for classifying, etc., lands of Yakima Reservation.. 213

for pay, etc., volunteers...... 220, 225, 809, 813

for surveyor general...

222

allotments permitted Hoh, etc., tribes of

Indians in Quinaielt Indian Reser-

vation...

1345

assigned to ninth judicial circuit..

1131

consent of Congress to agreement of boundary in Columbia River between

Oregon and....

881

creation or enlargement of national forests

in, forbidden, except by act of Con-

gress..

848

homesteaders' time to makeresidence, etc. ,

in, extended..

904

leave of absence allowed .

904

sale of Indian school, old Fort Spokane

Reservation, to; lands reserved .... 1075

sale of portion of two Indian allotments in

Chelan County, to Wapato Irriga-

tion Company.

1358

time extended for making final proofs of

desert-land entries in certain coun-

ties; affidavits required..

960

to furnish plant now employed in improv-

ing Columbia River....

665

Washington-Alaska Military Cable and Tele-

graph System, appropriation for cost of extension and bet-
terments from receipts....... 245, 1038

reimbursement of Canadian department of

public works for telegrams..

210

Washington Aqueduct, D. C. (see also Water

Department, D. C.),

appropriation for operation, salaries, etc. 391, 982

for filtration plant...

392, 982

for emergency fund, etc..

392, 983

for parking McMillan Park reservoir... 392, 983

for coagulant plant.

392

for water meters for Government Print-

ing Office, etc......

392

for lining portions of tunnels...

983

cclxxvi

INDEX .

Washington Aqueduct, D. C.- Continued .
appropriation for survey, etc., Patuxent River as a source of water supply .
for remodeling Georgetown reservoir.. for repairs, etc., Cabin John Bridge.... Washington Asylum, D. C.,
appropriation for salaries and expenses.. for paying families of prisoners.. for Home for Aged and Infirm.......
deficiency appropriation for expenses . for buildings.. for paying families of prisoners.
Washington Asylum and Jail, D. C., appropriation for support of prisoners, etc.. for salaries and expenses ...
for payments to families of prisoners.. for maintenance of prisoners, etc.... prisoners sentenced to jail confinement
under District laws to be delivered to officers of.....
employment of, on construction, etc.... to perform work as at jail..... custody of prisoners, jail, etc., vested in
District Commissioners....
confinement for United States offenses in.. jail and asylum combined into ..

Page.
983 983 983
406 406 407 785 785 1297
996 997 997 1002
1002 1002 1003
1003 1003 1003

superintendent to be appointed to super-

sede warden of jail and superintend-

ent of asylum....

1003

prisoners committed to jail or asylum to be

confined in..

1003

authority, etc. , of District supreme court in

relation to jail transferred to Com-

missioners...

1003

sale of products of; division of proceeds.... 1004 Washington Bayou, Miss.,
appropriation for improvement of....... 647, 942 Washington County, Wis.,
bridge authorized across Saint Croix River,
between Saint Croix County and .. 235, 921 Washington County, Utah,
appropriation for surveying public lands in 741 Washington, D. C. (see also District of Colum-

bia),

appropriation for naval gun factory, new

machinery, etc...

611

for navy yard, public works..

615

railroad siding to; right of way, con-

struction, etc..

615

new foundry, etc..

1275

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

meeting of Industrial Property

Union at..

...... 119, 775, 1290

for city post office..

780

city post-office, contracts for construction

authorized ..

697

board to approve plans...........

698

limit of cost.

698

expert services to prepare plans, etc.;

compensation ....

698

supervision of construction...

698

Court of Customs Appeals to organize in...... 105

Washington, D. C., Navy Yard, appropriation for installing water meters... 392

Washington Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing northern division... 1128

southern division....

1128

terms of court...

1128

Washington Homefor Incurables, D. C. ,

appropriation forcare ofindigentpatients. 408, 999

Washington, Ind.,

appropriation for public building..

1384

acquiring site for public buildingat, author-

ized ...

689

Washington, Iowa, appropriation for public building..

Page. 1384

acquiringsite for public buildingat, author

ized ..

689

Washington Market Company, D. C.,

authorized to lay switch into square No.

328 .

238

conduit underWaterStree into Potomac

River..

238

Washington Memorial Window, George, deficiency appropriation for purchase of... 795

Washington Monument, D. C.,.

appropriation for care, etc. , of grounds. 726, 1402

for care and maintenance..

728, 1404

for fuel, repairs, etc....

728, 1405

Washington, N. C.,

appropriation for public building..

1384

limit of cost increased, public.building.. 678

terms of court at; rooms required ..

1120

Washington National Forest, Wash.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of.. 429, 1252

Washington Sanitary Housing Company, D. C.,

increased dividends permitted ..

887

Washington Sound, etc., Wash.,

appropriation for lighting...

754

Washington, Spa Springs and Gretta Railroad

Company,

time extended for constructing road in

District of Columbia...

229

Washington Western Judicial District,
additional judge allowed for.. counties composing northern division.
western division.......
terms of court............. Waste,
duty on, cotton, manufactured . not specially provided for..
on free list, cotton... paper stock.. silk...

1087 1128 1128 1129
42 71 75 78 79

SEKER 8xxxxxx 

Waste, Wool,

duty on, garnetted .

53

ring..

53

roving..

53

slubbing.

53

thread..

53

.top ......

53

yarn..

53

Watch Cases,

duty on...

31

Watch Dials,

on free list, white glass enamel for........ 76

Watch Movements, etc.,

duty on....

31

Water Department, D. C.,

appropriation for Washington Aqueduct,

etc....

391, 982

for filtration plant...

392, 982

for emergency fund..

392, 983

for coagulant plant .

392

formetersin Government Printing Office,

etc....

392

for extension of mains..

412, 1005

for salaries....

412, 1006

for general expenses...

413, 1007

for extending high-service system; in-

stalling meters, etc..

413, 1007

temporary draftsmen, etc.

413, 1008

temporary laborers, etc ..

413, 1008

deficiency appropriation for main to

National Training School for Boys.. 122

for refund of water rent..

787

INDEX.

cclxxvii

Water Hyacinth,

Page.

appropriation for removing, from waters of

Florida...

646, 941

for removing, Louisiana and Texas.... 648, 943

Water Mains, D. C.,

appropriation for extension to Congress

Heights.....

412, 1005

forlaying 12-inch, in Conduit Road..... 412

division of receipts from assessments.. 412

for extending to Benning.....

1005

Water Meters, D. C., appropriation for installing,

Government

Printing Office, Navy-Yard, and

Municipal Building...

392

for installing, in privateresidences, etc.. 413 Water Power,

data concerning utilizing, for industrial

and commercial purposes, to be secured in river and harbor examina-

tions .....

668

Water-Power Reservoirs,

lands reserved from grants toArizona, to be

used for...

575

grants to New Mexico, to be used for.... 564

Water-Power Sites,

temporary withdrawals of public lands to

be reserved for...

847

Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for expenses of........... 715, 1391

Water-Right Applications, etc.,

modification, authorized,of, under reclama-

tion act...

902

Water Routes, Interstate Commerce,

-regulation of railroad rates in competition

with.....

548

Water Supply of the United States, appropriation for investigations to deter-

mine....

743, 1418

Wateree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of....................... 643

Waterloo, Iowa,

terms of court at......

1111

Waterloo, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building; use of

balance from Hornell..

707

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized..

691

WaterproofCloth,

duty on cotton, etc......

50

Waters, Mineral, etc.,

duty on..

40

Watersheds, investigation of, in connection with improvements of navigable streams.... 669

Watersheds ofNavigable Streams,

provisions for cooperation with States for

preservation of...

961

Waterside Drive NW., D. C., proceedings to condemn land for extending 232

appropriation for expenses..

232

Watertown Arsenal, Mass.,

appropriation for steam-heating system.... 720

for extending power plant.....

720, 1398

for crane runway in foundry.

720

for testing machines.....

... 720, 1398

Watertown, Ill., bridge authorized across South Branch of

Mississippi River, Campbells Is-

land to...

964

Waterville, Me.,

appropriation for public building.

1384

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ingsite.

207

Watervliet, Arsenal, N. Y., appropriation for repairs and equipment.. 721

foraddition to gun shop, etc......

1398

Waterways Commission, International, appropriation for expenses..

Page. 730, 1407

Waterways Commission, National (see also

National Waterways Commission),

expenses of employees, etc., allowed from

appropriations for...

130

Watts, William,

deficiency appropriation for services................. 127

Waukegan, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 658, 947

for public building...

1384

Waukesha, Wis.,

construction of public building author-

ized at...

684

Waupaca River, Wis., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 676

Waupun, Wis., appropriation for public building........ 1384

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .....

693

88888888

Wax,

duty on manufactures of, not specially

provided for.....

69

matches and tapers..

66

on free list, vegetable or mineral..

80

Waxahachie, Tex.,

appropriation for public building...... 707, 1384
Waycross, Ga., appropriation for public building......................... 1384

Waynesboro, Va.,

appropriation for public building.

1384

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

692

Waynesville, N. C.,

appropriation forpublic building.

1384

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

691

48588 8 8

Wearing Apparel,

duty on, beads orspangles.....

64

cotton, etc.....

47

embroidered.............

50

fur...

67

lace, cotton, flax, etc..

50

silk...

60

woolen, not specially provided for.....

54

on free list, of citizens, taken abroad and

returned..

80

of persons arriving in United States;

restriction....

80

Weather Bureau,

appropriation forsalaries...... for fuel, lights, repairs, etc... for contingent expenses..

417, 1236 418, 1237 418, 1237

cooperation with otherbureaus, etc. 418, 1237 forsalaries ofstation officials.......... 418, 1237
for supplies and materials........ 418, 1237

for instruments, apparatus, etc.... 418, 1237 for rebuilding station, Sand Key, Fla.. 418

for Key West station, Fla., repairs, etc.. 1237

for rent, repair of buildings, etc., out-

side ofWashington............

418, 1238

for traveling expenses....

418, 1238

for telephoning, telegraphing, etc.... 418, 1238 for maintenence of bureau lines...... 418, 1238

forinvestigations, reports, etc.... for printingoffice expenses.. forprintingand bindingfor..

418, 1238 418, 1238 769, 1447

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses..

224, 812, 1324, 1327

cooperation with other bureaus, societies in

disseminating information directed 418,1237

pilot charts to state that data is furnished

by Hydrographic Office and...

508

to promptly furnish meteorological_infor-

mation for pilot charts to Hydro-

graphic Office....

508

cclxxviii

INDEX.

Weather Bureau- Continued.

Page.

transfer ofpart ofappropriation for printing, to Government Printing Office..... 891

Weatherford, Tex.,

construction of public building author-

ized at...

683

Webb City, Mo.,

appropriation for public building..

1384

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

686

Webb, Honorable Edwin Yates,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses....

1317

Webbing,

duty on, cotton, flax, etc

50

woolen...

54

Webs,

duty on, cotton, etc

50

flax..

49

silk.

.60

Webster, Mass.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, advertising........

1294

Wedges,

duty on, iron or steel .

25

Weeds,

duty on, drugs ......

13

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

69

on free list, crude, drugs not specially pro-

vided for..

75

Weideman, Margaretha, Clarence C., and

Auguerite E., commission to assess damages to property

of, elimination of grade crossings,

D. C.......

1344

Weights and Measures,

deficiency appropriation for collecting in-

formation to aid in standardizing, in

trade..

801

Weights and Measures, International Bureau of,

appropriation for annual contribution .. 341, 1031

deficiency appropriation for contribution

to.....

203

Weights and Measures, International Com-

mittee of,

appropriation for expenses of American

member......

528, 1231

Weights, Measures, and Markets, D. C. , Su-

perintendent of,

title of sealer of weights and measures,

changed to....

874

Weiser National Forest, Idaho,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 429, 1252 Wekiva River, Fla. ,
preliminary examination to be made of.. 955
Welch, A. C.,

deficiency appropriation for widow of.... 1318

Wells, D. C.,

appropriation for drilling and maintenance,

deep..

389

Wellsburg, W. Va.,

appropriation for public building...

1384

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

688

Wenaha National Forest, Wash. and Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 430, 1252 Wenatchee National Forest, Wash.,
appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 430, 1252

Wenatchee, Wash. ,

appropriation for public building..

1384

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

692

West Galveston Bay Channel, Tex., appropriation for improvement of..

650, 944

West India Islands,

Page.

tonnage duty on vessels from ports in...... 111

West Indies, etc.,

appropriation for weather service ex-

penses in..

418, 1237

West Point, Miss.,

appropriation for public building.

1384

limit of cost increased, public building at.. 121

West Point, N. Y. (see Military Academy).

West Virginia,

assigned to fourth judicial circuit....... 1131

West Virginia Northern Judicial District,

counties composing..

1129

terms of court .

1129

Clarksburg .

1014

Martinsburg.

1014

Parkersburg .

1014

Philippi..

1014

Wheeling..

1014

West Virginia Southern Judicial District,

counties composing...

1129

terms of court.

1129

"West Virginia," U. S. S.,

appropriation for repairs.

621

Westchester Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 636, 936

Westerly, R. I.,

appropriation for public building.

1384

Western National Bank, York, Pa.,

deficiency appropriation for..

778

Western Union Telegraph Company,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment to .

790

for United States courts .

798

Westfield, Mass.,

appropriation for public building..

1384

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, site..

207

Westport, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 633

Wetmore, Honorable George Peabody,

made a member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission ..

898

Wetumpka, Ala.,

appropriation for river and harbor plant at. 644

Weymouth Back River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of......

632

Weymouth Fore River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of.

934

preliminary examination of, to be made... 672

Whale Oil,

duty on.

14

on free list, of American fisheries.

77

Whalebone,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for..

69

on free list, unmanufactured .

80

Wharf, D. C., Sand and Gravel,

appropriation for machinery, etc., for

equipping...

382

Wharfage Charges, Philippine Islands,

levied on shipments from.

174

Wharves,

duty on round timber for ...

33

Wharves, etc.,

allowed in Lake Michigan, Lake Ind ...
Wheat, duty on. flour .
Wheeling, W. Va., terms of court at.
Wheels, duty on, for railway purposes.. emery.

County, 1014,

880
36 36
1129
29 69

69

INDEX .

cclxxix

58888

Whetstones, on free list....

Page. 76

Whip Gut,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for...

69

on free list, unmanufactured .

74

Whips, on free list, sticks in the rough, cut for..... 81

Whisky (see Distilled Spirits).

White EarthBand ofChippewa Indians, Minn.,

appropriation for annual celebration... 276, 1065 for expenses of members sent to Wash-

ington, payable from tribal funds... 1065

White Fly

appropriation for investigating means of de-

stroying the.

433

White House, D. C. (see Executive Mansion, D. C.).

White Lake, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 655 preliminary examination to be made of

harbor....

955

White Lead,

duty on.

15

White Metal,

duty on jewelry articles of..

67

White Mountains Watersheds (see Conservation

of Navigable Waters).

White, Paris,

duty on.

15

White Pigment,

duty on, containing lead.:.

15

containing zinc.

15

White River,

dam authorized across, Taney County, Mo. 897

White River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 651, 945 bridge authorized across, at Augusta, Ark.. 199 preliminary examination of, to be made... 669
White River National Forest, Colo.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 430, 1252 White River Ute Indians, Utah,

appropriation for irrigating allotted lands

of.

285, 1074

White River Valley Railway Company,

may bridge Missouri River, Chamberlain,

S. Dak..

903

White Shoal Light Vessel, Lake Michigan,

transferred to Indiana Shoals........

536

White Slave Traffic Act,

application of interstate and foreign com-

merce to transportation under....

825

transporting, etc., females for immoral pur-

poses, a felony.

825

furnishing tickets, etc., included .

825

punishment for...

825

inducing, etc., transportation of women for

immoral purposes, a felony..

825

punishment for.

826

females under age of 18..

826

punishment for..

826

jurisdiction of courts to cover place of de-

parture, route, or destination..........

826

central bureau of information as to alien

prostitutes established..

826

statements from alien women required

for......

826

by keepers of houses of prostitution,

etc., of alien inmates..

827

failure of keepers of house of prostitution to

file statement, a misdemeanor...

827

punishment for..

827

presumption if statement, etc., not on

file.

827

criminating effect of testimony not ad-

mitted to excuse..

827

immunity for truthful statements....

827

White Slave Traffic Act-Continued.

Page.

provisions applicable to Alaska, insular

possessions, and Canal Zone.....

827

responsibility of corporations, etc. , for acts

of officers or agents....

827

White, William Frye, commission to assess damages to property

of, change of grade, Union Station,

D. C ..

581

Whitewood,

duty on, sawed boards, etc..

33

Whiting,

duty on.

15

Whitman National Forest, Oreg.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 430, 1252

Whitney-Central National Bank, New Orleans,

La. ,

deficiency appropriation for...

778

Whitten, James W.,

deficiency appropriation for.

797

Wholesale Prices ofImported Merchandise,

appraisers, etc. , to ascertain, etc., in coun-

try whence imported ..

97

ascertainment of, when goods not sold in

open market, etc..

98

determination of..

98

ad valorem duties to be assessed on, in

principal markets of country from

whence exported ...

101

meaning of...

101

Wichita Falls, Tex.,

appropriation for public building.

1384

limit of cost increased, public building.... 679

Wichita Indians, etc., Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of..... 280, 1069

Wichita, Kans.,

terms of courtat..

1112

Wichita National Forest, Okla. ,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of. 430, 1252

Wicking, Lamp, Stove, or Candle,

duty on, cotton, etc.....

48

Wicomico River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion .....

639, 937

Widell-Finley Company,

parties supplying materials, etc. , for Belle

Fourche irrigation projects under

contractwith, given right to sue, etc. 1170

Wilder, Captain William T.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

1300

Wilkesboro, N. C.,

appropriation for public building...

1384

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

687

terms of court at....

1120

Willamette River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Portland ...

664, 950

for improvement of, below Portland ;

contracts .

664, 950

for lighting.

754

bridge authorized across, at Portland,

Oreg ..

1348

preliminary examination of,to be made.... 674

Willapa River and Harbor, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of; local

cooperation; contracts .....

666, 951

Willapa, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

conditions ..

666

Williams, Charles L.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 806, 1318 Williams, Edwin L.,
deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1318 Williams, Russell,
deficiency appropriation for services...... 127

cclxxx

INDEX .

Williamson, W. Va. , appropriation for public building..

Page. 1384

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

692

Williamsport, Pa.,

terms of court at..

1123

Williard, Daniel E., `

deficiency appropriation for services....... 1309

Willis River, Va., preliminary examination of, to be made... 675

Williston, N. Dak.,

appropriation for public building..

1384

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized....

687

Willow,

duty on, for baskets .

34

braids, laces, etc.

64

furniture, etc...

34

hats, bonnets, and hoods..

65

manufactures of...

34

Willow Sheets or Squares,

duty on, for hats, etc..

64

Wills, Captain Davis B. , Marine Corps,

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts..

1305

Wilmington, Brunswick and Southern Railroad

Company,

may bridge Town Creek, Brunswick

County, N. C......

350

Wilmington, Cal., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 662

Wilmington, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 638, 936

reexamination to be made.

936

for public building.. terms of court at..

707 466, 1108

Wilmington, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of Cape

Fear River, at, above, and below. 641, 938

dredging plant...

....... 641

terms of court at.

1120

Wilmot, Ark.,

time extended for bridging Bayou Barthol-

omew at..

190

Wilson andGlassport Bridge Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Wilson to

Glassport, Pa...

195

Wilson, N. C.,

appropriation for public building ...... 1384

Wilson, Pa.,

bridge_authorized across Monongahela

River, Glassport to....

195

Wilson, S. B., and E. J. Bomer,

granted right of way over road to national

cemetery, Vicksburg, Miss......

926

Wilson and Brother, A..

deficiency appropriation for...................

1297

Wilson, Creek, Wash.,

grant of lands to, for water supply; pay-

ment..

903

Wilton Carpets,

duty on.....

55

Winchester, Ky., appropriation for public building....... 1384
limit of cost increased , public building...... 677

Winchester, Md.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

671

Winchester, Tenn. ,

appropriation for public building.

1384

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

688

Wind Cave National Park, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for protection , etc..

745

for improvement, etc..

1421

Wind River Indian Reservation, Wyo.,

Page.

appropriation for expenses, irrigation tem .
use of proceeds from lands, corrected .. WindowBlinds, · duty on wood, etc.. Window Curtains,
duty on cotton, flax, etc., lace...................... Window Glass,
duty on, bent, decorated , etc....
unpolished common.. Windows,
duty on stained or painted glass..... Windsor, Vt.,
terms of court at.

sys288, 1076 860
34
50
20 19
21
1127

Wines,

9999

duty on, champagnes and all sparkling........ 40

coloring for..

13

imitations of..............

40

still ....

40

rice, and similar beverages not specially

provided for....

40

Winfield, Kans.,

appropriation for public building...

1385

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

685

Winnebago Indians, Nebr. and Wis.,

appropriation for paying accrued interest

to enrolled tribal members ....

873

new enrollment to be basis of future

payments ...

873

deficiency appropriation for expenses en-

rollment of...

124

payment of agency expenses from interest. 877

Henry W. Lee from tribal funds..

288

Winnibigoshish Band, Chippewa Indians,

village site for, reserved in Minnesota..

863

Winnipeg, Yankton and Gulf Railroad Company,

time extended for bridging Missouri River, Yankton, S. Dak., by... ................... 186, 1082

Winona, Minn.,

terms of court at .

1116

Winston-Salem, N. C., appropriation for public building......

1385

acquiring additional ground to extend pub-

lic building at, authorized; cost..

693

limit of cost increased .

693

construction, etc., authorized ..

693

amount for fiscal year...

693

Winter Harbor, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made... 953
Winthrop, Md.,

appropriation for improvements, etc.,

Marine Corps rifle range.

1277

Winyah Bay, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts

643, 938

preliminary examination to be made of

basin of...

954

Wire,

duty on, barbed fence...

24

coated with tin, etc.

covered with cotton, etc..

24

flat iron or steel..

24

heddles or healds..

24

lead.......

30

manufactures ofiron or steel.

24

nails, wrought iron or steel..

rods, iron orsteel ..

24

round, iron or steel...

24

telegraph, etc., of metal and rubber, etc. 24

on free list, platinum..

78

Wire, Iron or Steel,

duty on, card clothing...

25



INDEX .

cclxxxi

 *** ** **

Wireless Communication Apparatus,

Page.

appropriation for expenses enforcing use

on seagoing steamships of....... 1230

ocean-going steamers to have apparatus for. 629

Wireless Telegraph, etc., Companies,

held to be common carriers...

545

Wireless Telephone, Army,

deficiency appropriation for developing,

etc., reappropriation.................

790, 1301

Wisconsin,

assigned to seventh judicial circuit ..

1131

consent of Congress to agreement for jurisdiction of State laws over Lake Mich-

igan by Illinois, Indiana, and....

882

swamp lands transferred to..

822

Wisconsin Central Railroad,

full time of residence allowed homesteaders

ejected from grant to...

885

time for second entries extended.

885

Wisconsin Central Railway Company, may bridge Saint Croix River between

Saint Croix and Washington Coun-

ties, Wis......

235

Wisconsin Eastern Judicial District,

counties composing..

1129

terms of court...

1129

Wisconsin Western Judicial District,

counties composing..

1129

terms of court.

1130

"Wistaria," Lighthouse Tender,

transferred to Public Health and Marine-

Hospital Service .....

912

Witherite,

on free list..

80

Withlacoochee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of...

646

preliminary examination of, to be made... 670

Witnesses, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees..

750, 1426

deficiency appropriation for fees.. 224, 1311, 1325

exclusion of evidence by, in criminal pro-

ceedings against them, repealed .... 352

not excluded on account of color, etc., in

Court of Claims.......

1143

Wold, Ansel, deficiency appropriation for services...... 804

WolfRiver, Miss., appropriation forimprovement of........ 647

Wolfram Metal,

duty on..

30

Women,

admitted to practice before the Supreme

Court...

1160

Women's Dress Goods,

duty on, woolen, cotton, etc., warp ...

54

not specially provided for....

54

Women's Relief Corps,

gift of land adjoining Andersonville Na-

tional Cemetery, Ga., accepted from 230 Wood,

duty on, blinds, screens, etc ..

34

blocks, heading, etc.....

33

bolts, heading and stave...

33

casks, etc..

33

clapboards..

33

hubs for wheels...

laths.....

manufactures of, not specially provided

for....

34

palings . paving posts. ........ pickets.. poles, telegraph, etc.

*****8*8*8*·`

8

Wood-Continued.

Page.

duty on, railroad ties...

33

rough-hewn posts, etc...

33

shingles....

33

similar to briar, unmanufactured, cut

into blocks...

33

staves .

33

unmanufactured, not specially provided

for.....

33

veneers of, not specially provided for..

33

on free list, cabinet, in the log, rough or

hewn only, not specially provided

for..

81'

cork, unmanufactured...........................

75

fence posts...

75

firewood, not specially provided for.... 81

gun blocks, rough hewn, etc., not spe-

cially provided for..

81

handle bolts, not specially provided for.. 81

hop poles, not specially provided for..

81

kindling...

76

logs, not specially provided for...

81

pitch...

80

pulp, not specially provided for..

81

red cedar timber.

81

round unmanufactured timber, not spe-

cially provided for.

81

shingle bolts, not specially provided for. 81

ship timber and ship planking, not spe-

cially provided for...

81

sticks in the rough, cut for umbrellas,

canes, etc.....

81

tar..

80

Wood and Manufactures of,

Schedule D, Tariff of 1909..

33

Wood Ashes,

on free list, and lye of.....................

73

Wood Distillation,

appropriation for investigating methods

of......

430, 1252

Wood Pulp,

duty on chemical ..

61

additional from country imposing ex-

port duty, etc....

61

00

mechanically ground, from country im-

posing export duty, etc...

60

countervailing duty on, from country

imposing export duty on printing

paper, etc.

61 .

on free list, mechanically ground, from

country not imposing export duty,

60

etc., on printing paper, pulp, or pulp

wood..

60

Wood Screws,

duty on.

29

Woodbridge Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 637,936

Woodbury Creek, N. J.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 673

Woodbury, N. J.,

appropriation for public building.

1385

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized.

690

Woodland,

census inquiries as to acreage of farm...... 4,227

Woodley Place NW., D. C.,

name of Twenty-third Street north of Cal-

vert, changed to...

240

Woods,

duty on, extracts of, other than dyewoods,

433

not specially provided for...

14

used expressly for dyeing or tanning... 13

on free list, crude, expressly used for dyeing, not specially provided for...... 75

cclxxxii

INDEX.

Woods, Elliott,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for services, House

Office Building, power plant, etc... 1306

for, Senate Office Building...

1307

Woods, Henry L.,

payment for services directed .

845

acts as commissioner Kentucky eastern

district legalized ..

845

Woodward, Okla.,

terms of court at; rooms required...... 825,1122

Wool,

classification of, under Tariff Act..

52

duty on first class..

53

second class .

53

third class..

53

advanced beyond washed or scoured,

not specially provided for.....

53

carpets and carpeting of flax, etc., and.. 55

combed or tops...

manufactures of, not specially provided

for...

53

ornamented with beads or spangles... 55

on the skin..

53

steel ..

24

wastes.

53

888

Wool and Manufactures of,

Schedule K, Tariff of 1909 ...

52

Wool and Woolen Schedule,

report to be made on, the first Monday in

December by Tariff Board, if estab-

lished by law.

1363

Wool Dutch Carpets,

duty on.

55

Wool Extract,

duty on.

53

Wool Grease,

duty on.

38

Woolen,

duty on, art squares..

55

bandings.

54

bed sides.

55

beltings .

54

bindings.

54

blankets .

bockings .

55

braces.

54

braids..

bunting .

buttons, etc., for tassels or ornaments... 54

carpets...

55

cloths, not specially provided for...

53

coat linings, cotton, etc., warp..

54

not specially provided for..

54

cords...

54

cords and tassels .

54

covers ...

55

dress goods, women's and children's.

54

druggets..

55

edgings .

54

embroideries .

54

felts, not specially provided for..

54

flannels ..

54

flouncings.

54

fringes..

54

galloons .

54

gimps..

54

ghoarsisnogcsk.s..

54 55

head nets .

54

insertings .

54

Italian cloths, cotton, etc., warp ..

54

not specially provided for...

54

knit fabrics, not specially provided for

53

knitted articles....

54

laces and lace articles.

54

85N8X2X6N8X

Woolen-Continued.
duty on, mats. nettings ..... ornaments. ........ rags...... ready-made clothing, not specially provided for... ribbons .

Page. 55 54 54 53
54 54

rugs for floors . screens . shawls...

suspenders.

trimmings..

54

webbings.

54

yarns..

53

Woonsocket, R. I.,

appropriation for public building.

707, 1385

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

Wooster, Ohio,

.construction of public building authorized

at...

682

Workhouse, D. C. (see also Washington

Asylum and Jail, D. C.),

appropriation for general expenses.

1002

deficiency appropriation for.

785

inmates to be released in the District on ex-

piration of sentence ..

464

superintendent, etc., to be appointed .

786

duties, authority, etc....

786

jurisdiction of Commissioners over

prisoners, etc.

786

interchangeable appropriations..

786

title to site for new, to be in United States;

condemnation authorized...

122

Workman's Compensation, Employer's Liability and,
commission to investigate authorized ; composition, recommendations, etc..... 884
deficiency appropriation for expenses ... 1315 Works ofArt,

on free list, by States, educational societies,

etc., not for sale; conditions........

81

for presentation to institutions, etc.; ex-

ceptions.....

81

for temporary exhibition, etc., not for

sale; conditions..

81

in existence more than twenty years..

81

of American artists temporarily residing

abroad....

81

produced more than 100 years before im-

portation.....

82

Worm Gut,

duty on manufactures of, not specially pro-

vided for..........

69

on free list, unmanufactured .

74

Woven Fabrics,

ofcamel'shair, etc., classified as wool...... 67

Wrapper Tobacco,

duty on.

34

Wrapping Paper,

dutyon, not specially provided for.................... 63

Wrapping Paper, Postal Service, appropriation for.....

366, 1338

Wreaths,

duty on feathers, artificial, etc .........

66

Writing Paper,

duty on..

63

Writs ofCertiorari,

expense of proceedings in, diminished;

transcripts of records, etc., to be

filed ..

901

Writs ofError,

expense of proceedings in, diminished ;

transcripts of records, etc., to be

filed ...

901

INDEX .

cclxxxiii

Writs ofError and Appeals,

Page.

cases in which, are allowed to Supreme Court direct from districts courts.... 1157

from circuit courts of appeals...

1157

Wyoming,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc...

518, 1220

forestablishing fish-cultural station in... 1440

assigned to eighth judicial circuit...

1131

authorized to exchange lands heretofore

selected ..

295

creation or enlargement of national forests -

in, forbidden, except by act of Con-

gress.

848

homesteaders' time to make residence, etc.,

in, extended ...

189, 904

leave ofabsence allowed .

189, 904

lands of Fort Bridger abandoned military

reservation subject to provisions of

Carey Act....

913

may select lands on Shoshone Indian

Reservation, under Carey Act.

288

sale of public lands to Johnson County,

authorized ..

237

Wyoming Judicial District,

territory comprising.

1130

terms of court.

1130

Wyoming National Forest, Wyo., appropriation for maintenance, etc., of. 430, 1252

Wytheville, Va.,

construction authorized of public building

at..

683

X.

Xenia, Ohio,

construction of public building at, au-

thorized...

682

Xylidin, on free list......

Xylol, on free list......

Y.

Yachts, Foreign-Built,

annual excise tax on, owned, etc., by citi-

zens ....

112

acceptance of duty in lieu of..

112

privileges, requirements, etc..

112

tonnage exemptions extended ..

112

vessels admitted to registry not included.. 112

owned by citizens, allowed tonnage ex-

emptions, etc...

112

Yakima Agency, Wash.,

deficiency appropriation for support, etc. ,

of Indians..

223

Yakima County, Wash.,

time extended for final proofs of desert land

entries in; affidavits...

960

Yakima, etc., Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of..... 286, 1074

Yakima Indian Reservation, Wash.,

appropriation for irrigation system on; re-

imbursement.

286, 1075

report on necessity for wagon roads in.. 1075

deficiency appropriation for classifying,

etc., lands of..

213

town sites to be reserved, etc., on un-

allotted lands of...

348

allotments to children of tribe..

349

appropriation for expenses of surveys,

allotting, etc..

349

reservation on town sites forschools, etc.... 349

disposition of proceeds from sales of town

lots.....

349

prohibition of intoxicants.

349

** 282 8 87996587 74 74

Yalobusha River, Miss.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 672 Yamhill River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 664, 950

Yankton, Norfolk and Southern Railway Com-

pany,

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

Yankton, S. Dak., by.

267, 1351

Yankton, S. Dak.,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

at.

186, 267, 1082, 1351

Yankton Tribe ofSioux Indians, S. Dak.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with.. 284, 1072 claim for lands in Minnesota referred to

Court of Claims.

284

attorneys to be furnished

284

Yaquina, Oreg., Customs District,

territory.

579

port of entry, Yaquina.

579

port of delivery, Newport..

579

officers and residence ..

579

Yaquina River, Oreg.,

preliminary examination to be made of.......... 956

Yarns,

duty on, artificial silk; etc ..

60

cotton..

41

flax, hemp, or ramie..

49

jute.....

49

silk; classification ..

55

not specially provided for.

woolen ...

53

on free list, coir.....

74

Yavapai County, Ariz.,

lands granted to Arizona to pay bonds is-

sued by

573

Yazoo River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of mouth

of..

647

for improvement of, and tributaries... 647,942 Yellow Fever,

appropriation for prevention of epi-

demic...

717, 1394

Yellow Metal,

duty on.

30

Yellowstone National Park,

appropriation for commissioner...

529, 1233

for maintenance, etc ..

725, 1402

restriction on removingsnowfrom roads 725

for protection, etc...

745, 1420

for care of buffaloes.

745, 1420

for chapel on Fort Yellowstone Reserva-

tion, in....

1050

included in Wyoming judicial district.... 1130

terms of court in..

1130

jurisdiction of Wyoming district court over

crimes, etc., in..

1094

Yellowstone River,

bridge authorized across, in Dawson

County, Mont...

600

Yerba Buena Island, Cal.,

appropriation for naval training station,

maintenance ..

609, 1269

deficiency appropriation for naval training

station, maintenance ..

1304

Yoakum, Tex.,

appropriation for public building...

1385

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

692

Yonkers, N. Y. ,

appropriation for public building.....

1385

limit of cost increased, public building... 678

York River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of.............

640

for lighting....

754

York, Pa.,

appropriation for public building......... 1385

cclxxxiv

INDEX .

222222224

Yosemite National Park, Cal.,

Page.

appropriation for protection, etc... 745, 1420

for examinations for sources of San Fran-

cisco water supply in .

745

continued .

1420

Youghiogheny River, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of......

638

Young Doctor, Makah Indian,

appropriation for purchasing improvements

of, on Waada Island, Wash...

286

Young, E. C.,

deficiency appropriation for..

1296

Young Men's Christian Association,

secretaries and supplies for, may be trans-

ported on Army transports...... 256, 1051

Youngstown, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for public building 779

terms of court at.

1121

Ypsilanti, Mich.,

appropriation for public building..

1385

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .............

686

Yuba River, Cal.,

sale of lands, etc. , settling basin.......

663

Yukon River, Alaska,

preliminary examination to be made of

Apoon, mouth of..............

956

Yuma, Ariz.,

grant of "quarry reserve" to..

583

strip from Fort Yuma Reservation..

583

Yuma Indian Reservation, Ariz.,

deficiency appropriation for townsite ex-

penses; reimbursable ....

880

allotment of irrigated lands to Indians on,

increased...

1063

appropriation for costs, etc..

1063

advances a lien on allotment for charges. 1063

satisfaction, etc...

1063

religious organizations permitted to select

irrigable lands on..

829

Z.

Page.

Zaffer,

on free list..

82

Zalinski, Major M. Gray,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts..

778

Zanzibar,

appropriation for interpreters and guarde

at consulate..

346, 1035

Zinc,

duty on, block...

32

chloride of...

15

dust.....

32

manufactures of, not specially provided

for.....

33

old and worn out..

32

ore; determination of....

31

oxide of...

15

pigs......

32

sheets of..

32

sheets of, coated, etc.

32

sulfid of zinc white, or white sulphide

of...

15

sulphate of..

15

on free list, ore containing less than ten per

cent..

31

Zoological Park, D. C., National,

appropriation for expenses; half from Dis-

trict revenues.......

... 719, 1396

for roadways and walks.

719

for grading, etc., roads adjacent to ...

978

for printing and binding for..

768, 1447

deficiency appropriation for opening high-

ways to...

784

Zuni National Forest, N. Mex. and Ariz., appropriation formaintenance, etc., of. 430, 1252

O

DEMCO

LAW LIBRARY University of Michigan
3 5112 200 627 794

